Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	Is allergic rhinitis related to migraine disability in adults?	Our results suggest that current allergic rhinitis, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, and seasonal allergic rhinitis are not related to headache disability in adults with episodic migraine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314845	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314845	headache
Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	The influence of allergic rhinoconjunctivitis on migraine disability in children.	Current allergic rhinoconjunctivitis is related to enhanced disability caused by headache in childhood migraine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314844	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314844	headache
Brain and behavior	Magnetic resonance imaging findings and clinical manifestations in cerebral angiostrongyliasis from Dali, China.	The possibility of A. cantonensis infection should be considered in the effective use of albendazole or mebendazole as a treatment. Combining clinical history with laboratory examination is helpful in diagnosing A. cantonensis infection. A final definite diagnosis can be confirmed by detecting larvae in the CSF. The administration of corticosteroids during pathogen therapy can substantially reduce the therapeutic response.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313505	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313505	headache
Journal of general and family medicine	Inappropriate use of the emergency department for nonurgent conditions: Patient characteristics and associated factors at a Japanese hospital.	Patients with two or more previous out-of-hours ED visits were more than three times as likely to inappropriately use the ED compared to patients who had not visited the ED at all in the past 3 years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31312581	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312581	headache
Cureus	A Case Report: Tragic Death in a Young Patient with Human Immunodeficiency Virus Due to Cryptococcal Meningitis.	Cryptococcal meningitis is a systemic infection that can be seen in immunosuppressed patients. Altered mental status, somnolence, and obtundation are warning signs of poor prognosis or advanced disease processes. We present a 23-year-old female with a past medical history significant for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) obtained via vertical transmission who presented to the emergency department (ED) with a gradual onset of worsening headache over 10 days, with blurry vision, photophobia, nausea and vomiting, and progressive memory lapses. Her blood tests, chest plain radiograph, and non-contrast brain computed tomography (CT) were normal. In the ED, she developed a fever of 102°F and became more confused and agitated, with interspersed screaming and yelling. A lumbar puncture (LP) showed elevated white blood cell count and was positive for Cryptococcus neoformans; an opening pressure was unable to be obtained due to patient agitation. Despite prompt intravenous antibiotics and antifungal medications, her short, but tenuous hospital course involved declining mental status, requiring intubation and multiple therapeutic lumbar punctures, with an elevated opening pressure of up to 55 cm H2O. The patient suffered global ischemic encephalopathy and died on hospital day two. This case highlights the rapid decompensation of a young immunocompromised patient with cryptococcal meningitis, as well as the importance of early disease management and consultation to neurology and neurosurgery services. An important paradigm difference for emergency medicine (EM) physicians in the management of increased intracranial pressure (ICP) in patients with cryptococcal meningitis is avoiding acetazolamide, mannitol, and steroids and considering the indication for neurosurgical interventions for severe cryptococcal meningitis.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31312577	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312577	headache
Cureus	A Case Report of Human Herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) Meningitis Masquerading as Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension in an Immunocompetent Patient.	We present a case of a 32-year-old woman with signs and symptoms of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), but who, upon further investigation, was found to have human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) in both cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum. This rare cause of meningitis in an immunocompetent individual and a relatively unique presentation is described along with a review of proper diagnostic workup and treatment. HHV-6 meningitis is commonly detected via molecular diagnostics and thus needs confirmatory testing of viral load of acellular compartments or viral serology. The reason for this added diagnostic step is due to the incorporation of the virus into the host DNA, leading to increased false-positive results on screening tests. In this case, proper diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up were pursued by following guidelines proposed in the literature of HHV-6 meningitis.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31312562	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312562	headache
Neuro-ophthalmology (Aeolus Press)	Ophthalmic Manifestations of Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome.	Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) is a condition of neurotoxicity that presents with a sudden onset of symptoms including headache, altered mental status, seizures, and visual disturbances. Monitoring visual symptoms in PRES is critical as visual deficits are found in nearly 40% of patients.  This paper aims to identify the visual symptoms associated with PRES and determine visual outcomes following treatment.  While the symptoms of PRES are alarming, the disease is typically reversible once the cause is eliminated.  Our findings suggest that those who present with ocular complaints can be reassured that their symptoms will improve, if not completely resolve.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312242	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312242	headache
Neuro-ophthalmology (Aeolus Press)	United Kingdom CSF Disorders Day 2018.	The multi-specialty approach to managing patients with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) disorders requires neurology, neurosurgery, neuroradiology and neuro-ophthalmology. The annual United Kingdom CSF disorders meeting presented the first guidelines for idiopathic intracranial hypertension focusing on protecting the vision, managing the underlying disease and reducing headache morbidity. The most recent scientific concepts in CSF disorders were presented, as was the applied understanding of shunt and valve technology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312239	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312239	headache
Frontiers in neurology	Are CSF Pressure Factors Related to the Development of Post-dural Puncture Headache?	Post-dural puncture headache (PDPH) is an unfavorable situation seen in considerable number of patients even though atraumatic and small needle reduces its incidence. CSF pressures measured at the time of puncture change after CSF drainage. In the present study, we investigated relationships between CSF pressure-related factors and occurrence of PDPH. We prospectively enrolled 103 participants who underwent CSF studies for meningitis. Using a standardized protocol, CSF opening pressure (OP) and closing pressure (CP) were measured, and cerebrospinal elastance (ECS) and pressure-volume index (PVI) were investigated. Within 14 days after dural puncture, we confirmed PDPH. According to PDPH development, the CSF pressure factors and clinical variables were compared between PDPH and non-PDPH group. Of the 103 participants, 100 (97.0%) had decreased CP, 16 (15.5%) had values below 6 cmH	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312175	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312175	headache
Archivos de la Sociedad Espanola de Oftalmologia	Neuro-ophthalmological manifestations of POEMS syndrome.	The cases is presented of a 38 year-old male with a constitutional syndrome, fever, multiple swollen lymph nodes, and hepatosplenomegaly of 2 months onset. There was also mention of headache, bilateral blurred vision, and myiodesopsias. Best correct visual acuity was 20/50 and 20/200. The anterior segment was unremarkable. The fundus of both eyes showed raised and erased discs, accompanied by serous detachment, greater in the left eye. Complementary studies of both eyes showed a visual field with increased blind spot; fluorescein angiography indicated late disc hyperfluorescence. The electroretinogram showed compromise of cones and rods, and the visual evocated potential detected alteration in the perception and conduction of stimuli. The imaging studies were essentially normal. During his hospital admission he presented with paraparesis, renal failure, endocrinopathy, skin alterations, and osteoblastic lesions with negative biopsies. Monoclonal gammopathy was documented, and the diagnosis of POEMS (Polyneuropathy, Organomegaly, Endocrinopathy, Monoclonal gammopathy, and Skin changes) syndrome was made. The chemotherapy started with dexamethasone/melphalan, with a good response at 3 months.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31311688	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311688	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Cannabinoids induce latent sensitization in a preclinical model of medication overuse headache.	Cannabinoid receptor agonists including Δ-9-THC produce a state of latent sensitization characterized by increased sensitivity to stress, a presumed migraine trigger. Overuse of cannabinoids including cannabis may increase the risk of medication overuse headache in vulnerable individuals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311288	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311288	headache
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Interesting Case of Stroke.	We report regarding a 46 year old female patient, who presented with complaints of severe headache and right sided weakness. Examination revealed right Hemiplegia with BP of 144/90 mm Hg. Investigations revealed Creatine Kinase: 470IU/L, normal Blood counts, ESR and CRP. Thyroid profile was normal. Fibrinogen levels were 17.9mg/dl and repeat test after 1 week showed 24.6mg/dl. ECG showed incomplete left bundle branch block. Echocardiography was normal.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31311228	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311228	headache
Swiss medical weekly	Factors associated with significant MRI findings in medical walk-in patients with acute headache.	 	2016	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31309990	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309990	headache
European journal of endocrinology	MANAGEMENT OF ENDOCRINE DISEASE: Immune check point inhibitors-induced hypophysitis.	In recent years, the development of immunotherapy has constituted a revolution in the therapy for many cancers, with a specific toxicity profile including endocrine immune-related adverse events. Immune check point inhibitors (ICI)-induced hypophysitis is a common endocrine side effect, particularly with CTLA-4 antibodies and combination therapy, with frequent hormonal deficiencies at diagnosis. It can be difficult to evoke such diagnosis as the initial clinical symptoms are not specific (headache, asthenia…); thus, patients receiving such immunomodulatory therapies should be closely monitored by systematic hormone measurements, especially in the first weeks of treatment. Usually, hormonal deficiencies improve, except for corticotroph function. Despite a lack of large prospective studies on ICI-induced hypophysitis, some detailed longitudinal cohort studies have focused on such cases of hypophysitis and allow for optimal monitoring, follow-up and management of patients with this immune-related adverse event. In the case of ICI-induced hypophysitis, patients need long-term multidisciplinary follow-up, with specific education for those patients with corticotropin deficiency to allow them to be autonomous with their treatment. In this review, based on a clinical case, we detail the most relevant and novel aspects related to the incidence, diagnosis, treatment, evolution and management of hypophysitis induced by immunotherapy, with a focus on possible mechanisms and current recommendations and guidelines. Lastly, we emphasize several key points, such as the absence of indication to systematically treat with high-dose glucocorticoid and the pursuit of immunotherapy in such hypophysitis. These points should be kept in mind by oncologists and endocrinologists who treat and monitor patients treated by immunotherapy.	2019	eng	Review	England	31311002	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311002	headache
Headache	Relationship of Migraine and Tension-Type Headache With Hypothyroidism: A Literature Review.	The existing data are considered inadequate to answer with certainty the relationship between headaches and thyroid disorders. According to our analysis, it seems that suggestions for a possible bidirectional association between headaches and especially migraine and hypothyroidism could exist. It hence lays the foundation for further research into the aforementioned association and its pathogenesis via large prospective multicenter studies.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31310335	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310335	headache
Headache	Headache, Visual Loss, and Encephalopathy Associated With Intravenous Ozone Administration.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310327	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310327	headache
JAMA	Episodic Cluster Headache Antibody Therapy.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310283	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310283	headache
Endocrinology, diabetes & metabolism case reports	Acromegaly remission, SIADH and pituitary function recovery after macroadenoma apoplexy	Patients with pituitary apoplexy may have spontaneous remission of hormonal hypersecretion. If it is not an emergency, we should delay a decision to undertake surgery following apoplexy and re-evaluate hormone secretion.

Hyponatraemia is an acute sign of hypocortisolism in pituitary apoplexy. However, SIADH although uncommon, could appear later as a consequence of direct hypothalamic insult and requires active and individualised treatment. For this reason, closely monitoring sodium at the beginning of the episode and throughout the first week is advisable to guard against SIADH.

Despite being less frequent, if pituitary apoplexy is limited to the tumour, the patient can recover pituitary function previously damaged by the undiagnosed macroadenoma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310082	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310082	headache
Journal of biological regulators and homeostatic agents	Secondary sinonasal headache in children: an empiric approach.	 	2019	eng	Letter	Italy	31309817	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309817	headache
The Cochrane database of systematic reviews	Interventions for morphea.	Compared to placebo plus oral prednisone, oral methotrexate plus oral prednisone may improve disease activity or damage in juvenile active morphea (linear scleroderma, generalised morphea or mixed morphea: linear and circumscribed), but there may be a slightly increased chance of experiencing at least one adverse event.When medium-dose UVA-1 (50 J/cm²), low-dose UVA-1 (20 J/cm²), and narrowband UVB were compared against each other in treating children and adults with active morphea (circumscribed morphea, linear scleroderma, generalised morphea and mixed morphea), there may be little or no difference between these treatments on global improvement of disease activity or damage. UVA-1 phototherapy may cause more mild tanning than narrowband UVB, but there may be no difference between medium- and low-dose UVA-1 phototherapy. These results are based on low-quality evidence.Limitations of data and analyses include risk of bias and imprecision (small number of participants or events and wide confidence intervals). We encourage multicentre RCTs to increase sample size and evaluate, with validated tools, different treatment responses according to the subtypes of morphea and age groups.	2019	eng	Review	England	31309547	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309547	headache
Cureus	Persistent Cerebrospinal Fluid Leukocytosis: Could this be Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension?	A 37-year-old female, a known epileptic, presented to the neurology clinic with a seven-day history of persistent bilateral headache not improving with analgesics. Her neurological and systemic examinations were unremarkable except for right optic disc edema. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain and magnetic resonance venography (MRV) were normal but her cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) opening pressure was 280 mm of water with a CSF white cell count of 214. The patient showed improvement following treatment with intravenous antibiotics and acyclovir. She returned a week later with double vision and blurring in both eyes. Examination showed bilateral sixth nerve palsies and bilateral optic disc edema with left fundal hemorrhages. The spinal tap was repeated again, which showed a CSF opening pressure of 500 mm of water and the white cell count was 48. Extensive investigations for etiologies were mostly unrevealing. The patient was started on acetazolamide and topiramate combined with a large-volume therapeutic CSF tap. She continued to improve subsequently and was at the baseline functional state at three months, with complete resolution of hemorrhages and optic disc edema. Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) may present with persistent abnormal CSF with a high white cell count. Therefore, this must be diagnosed with caution, as it may be misdiagnosed and wrongly treated for other causes.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31309030	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309030	headache
Journal of vascular and interventional neurology	Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Sympathetic Ganglion in a Patient with Internal Carotid Artery Dissection.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308865	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308865	headache
Clinical medicine (London, England)	Lessons of the month 3: Spontaneous resolution of frontotemporal brain sagging syndrome.	We present a case of a man with headache and progressive behavioural disturbance. His cognitive decline progressed over a few months such that he was unable to hold a conversation or carry out any daily tasks such as washing and dressing. He had some upper motor neurone signs in his limbs and features of brainstem dysfunction including dysarthria and ocular abnormalities. His brain magnetic resonance imaging showed signs of brain 'sagging'. He was thought to have frontotemporal brain sagging syndrome. Prior to any treatment, he began to improve. Over the course of a week he became markedly better, was back to normal within 3 months and remains so 7 months later. We propose that resolution of spontaneous intracranial hypotension led to resolution of frontotemporal brain sagging syndrome. We believe this is the first case described where this has occurred without any intervention. It is important to recognise this condition as a potentially reversible cause of dementia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308118	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308118	headache
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research	Dose-ranging and cohort-expansion study of monalizumab(IPH2201) in advanced gynecologic malignancies:A trial of the Canadian Cancer Trials Group (CCTG):IND221.	Monalizumab 10 mg/kg IV q 2 weekly is well tolerated in patients with pre-treated gynecologic cancers. Short term disease stabilization was observed. Future studies should assess combinations with other agents including immunotherapeutics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308062	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308062	headache
eNeuro	TRESK K	Although TWIK-related spinal cord K	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308053	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308053	headache
Sexual medicine	Meta-Analysis of the Long-Term Efficacy and Tolerance of Tadalafil Daily Compared With Tadalafil On-Demand in Treating Men With Erectile Dysfunction.	Tadalafil daily provides a preferable therapeutic effect for ED with a lower incidence of treatment-emergent side effects relative to tadalafil on-demand after at least 24 weeks of long-term treatment. Zhou Z, Chen H, Wu J, et al. Meta-Analysis of the Long-Term Efficacy and Tolerance of Tadalafil Daily Compared With Tadalafil On-Demand in Treating Men With Erectile Dysfunction. J Sex Med 2019;XX:XXX-XXX.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31307951	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307951	headache
The lancet. HIV	Efficacy and safety of dolutegravir-rilpivirine for maintenance of virological suppression in adults with HIV-1: 100-week data from the randomised, open-label, phase 3 SWORD-1 and SWORD-2 studies.	ViiV Healthcare and Janssen Pharmaceutica.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307948	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307948	headache
The journal of headache and pain	New daily persistent headache: a systematic review on an enigmatic disorder.	NDPH remains poorly understood but very burdensome for the individual. Multi-center randomized controlled trials are recommended to gain better understanding of NDPH and to establish evidence based treatments.	2019	eng	Review	England	31307396	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307396	headache
The journal of headache and pain	Real-world effectiveness of onabotulinumtoxinA treatment for the prevention of headaches in adults with chronic migraine in Australia: a retrospective study.	This study provides additional clinical evidence for the consistent effectiveness of onabotulinumtoxinA for the treatment of CM in Australia. This effectiveness was made evident by reductions in migraine days, severe headache days, and HIT-6 scores from baseline.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307383	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307383	headache
The journal of headache and pain	The association between headache and low back pain: a systematic review.	PROSPERO 2018 CRD42018086557 .	2019	eng	Review	England	31307372	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307372	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Risk factors and psychological impact of syncope in migraine patients.	Our study showed the potential roles of vascular risk factors in the association between migraine and syncope. Modifiable risk factors for syncope in patients with migraine include body mass index and tea intake. The debilitating psychological impact of co-morbid syncope in migraine patients warrants clinical attention of treating physicians.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307206	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307206	headache
Pediatric emergency care	Clinical Indicators of Pediatric Shunt Malfunction: A Population-Based Study From the Nationwide Emergency Department Sample.	We identified peritonitis, papilledema, and oculomotor palsies as the strongest clinical indicators for shunt malfunction in pediatric ED visits with a CSF shunt. We found that patients presenting with headache, nausea/vomiting, convulsions, or fever were more likely to have an etiology other than shunt malfunction. Thus, after an appropriate shunt evaluation, other sources of symptoms should be investigated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305502	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305502	headache
Medicine	Male primary mediastinal choriocarcinoma with diffuse metastases: A case report.	Male primary choriocarcinoma is an extremely rare type of malignancy. Greater awareness, earlier diagnosis and novel treatments are urgently needed to benefit patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305456	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305456	headache
Medicine	Symptomatic posterior fossa and supratentorial subdural hygromas as a rare complication following transarticular screw fixation with posterior wiring for atlantoaxial instability: A case report.	5.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305388	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305388	headache
American family physician	Acupuncture for Pain.	Acupuncture has been increasingly used as an integrative or complementary therapy for pain. It is well-tolerated with little risk of serious adverse effects. Traditional acupuncture and nontraditional techniques, such as electroacupuncture and dry needling, often result in reported pain improvement. Multiple factors may contribute to variability in acupuncture's therapeutic effects, including needling technique, number of needles used, duration of needle retention, acupuncture point specificity, number of treatments, and numerous subjective (psychological) factors. Controlled trials have been published on pain syndromes, such as acupuncture for acute and chronic low back pain, knee osteoarthritis, headache, myofascial pain, neck pain, and fibromyalgia. For some conditions, enough data are available for systematic evaluations or meta-analyses. Acupuncture may provide modest benefits in the treatment of chronic low back pain, tension headache and chronic headache, migraine headache prophylaxis, and myofascial pain. Although patients receiving acupuncture for acute low back pain and knee osteoarthritis report less pain, the improvement with true (verum) acupuncture over sham acupuncture is not clinically significant for these conditions. These two conditions illustrate a recurring pattern in acupuncture trials, in which the additional improvement that can be attributed to verum over sham acupuncture, even when statistically significant, is of less clinical significance. This pattern supports the notion that acupuncture treatment has a notable placebo response, or meaning response, that may be responsible for much of its demonstrated benefits. For certain patients, especially those who are unresponsive or intolerant to standard therapies, acupuncture is a reasonable treatment option.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305037	headache
Journal of neuroimaging : official journal of the American Society of Neuroimaging	White Matter Hyperintensities in Patients with Sporadic Hemiplegic Migraine.	The WMH occurrence in patients with SHM is significantly more in the parietal lobe when compared to those with migraine headaches. WMH burden was also higher in patients with SHM, and larger white matter lesions occurred more frequently in these patients with SHM (compared to ordinary migraineurs).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304994	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304994	headache
British journal of neurosurgery	The influence of concomitant syringomyelia on patient reported outcome following hind brain decompression.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304794	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304794	headache
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Myelitis: A Rare Presentation of Epstein Barr Virus.	EBV associated nervous system complications includes encephalitis, meningitis, cerebellitis, polyradiculomyelitis, transverse myelitis, cranial and peripheral neuropathies, and psychiatric abnormalities are usually more commonly seen in immunocompromised patients and rarely in immunocompetent patients. Here we are reporting a 13 years old boy developed headache, malaise, sore throat and low back pain with radiation to both lower limbs. Next day he felt numbness below umbilicus followed by acute onset weakness in both lower limbs and urinary retention. Motor exam revealed proximal muscle power MRC grade 4/5 and distal power 1/5 in right lower limb and proximal power 4-/5 and distal power 0/5 in left lower limb with normal power in both upper limbs. Deep tendon reflexes were bilaterally normal except absent ankle reflexes. Both plantars were mute. All the modalities of sensation including pain, touch, temperature, joint position and vibration were impaired below umbilicus. Routine investigations were normal. The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of thoracic spine showed intramedullary lesion in conus, which was iso-hyperintense on T1-weighted and hyperintense on T2- weighted images extending from D12thoracic vertebral level to L1 with cord expansion (Figures 1, 2). The MRI features were suggestive of conus myelitis. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis revealed increased protein, normal cells, glucose and Chloride. CSF Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was positive for Epstein Barr virus . The clinical and imaging findings were consistent with the diagnosis of myelitis and responded well to steroid plus acyclovir treatment. The clinicians should be aware of such uncommon etiology of a common disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31304721	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304721	headache
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Clinical Manifestations and Complications of Scrub Typhus: A Hospital-based Study from North Andhra.	Scrub typhus though prevalent is under-reported in our country. It should be considered as an important differential diagnosis in a febrile patient with thrombocytopenia, deranged liver or renal functions. Early diagnosis and appropriate treatment is rewarding and prevents morbidity and mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31304700	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304700	headache
NPJ digital medicine	Smartphone-based migraine behavioral therapy: a single-arm study with assessment of mental health predictors.	Progressive muscle relaxation (PMR) is an under-utilized Level A evidence-based treatment for migraine prevention. We studied the feasibility and acceptability of smartphone application (app)-based PMR for migraine in a neurology setting, explored whether app-based PMR might reduce headache (HA) days, and examined potential predictors of app and/or PMR use. In this single-arm pilot study, adults with ICHD3 migraine, 4+ HA days/month, a smartphone, and no prior behavioral migraine therapy in the past year were asked to complete a daily HA diary and do PMR for 20 min/day for 90 days. Outcomes were: adherence to PMR (no. and duration of audio plays) and frequency of diary use. Predictors in the models were baseline demographics, HA-specific variables, baseline PROMIS (patient-reported outcomes measurement information system) depression and anxiety scores, presence of overlapping pain conditions studied and app satisfaction scores at time of enrollment. Fifty-one patients enrolled (94% female). Mean age was 39 ± 13 years. The majority (63%) had severe migraine disability at baseline (MIDAS). PMR was played 22 ± 21 days on average. Mean/session duration was 11 ± 7 min. About half (47%) of uses were 1+ time/week and 35% of uses were 2+ times/week. There was a decline in use/week. On average, high users (PMR 2+ days/week in the first month) had 4 fewer days of reported HAs in month 2 vs. month 1, whereas low PMR users (PMR < 2 days/week in the first month) had only 2 fewer HA days in month 2. PROMIS depression score was negatively associated with the log odds of using the diary at least once (vs. no activity) in a week (OR = 0.70, 95% CI = [0.55, 0.85]) and of doing the PMR at least once in a week (OR = 0.77, 95% CI = [0.68, 0.91]). PROMIS anxiety was positively associated with using the diary at least once every week (OR = 1.33, 95% CI = [1.09, 1.73]) and with doing the PMR at least once every week (OR = 1.14 [95% CI = [1.02, 1.31]). In conclusion, about half of participants used smartphone-based PMR intervention based upon a brief, initial introduction to the app. App use was associated with reduction in HA days. Higher depression scores were negatively associated with diary and PMR use, whereas higher anxiety scores were positively associated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304392	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304392	headache
Zhong nan da xue xue bao. Yi xue ban = Journal of Central South University. Medical sciences	[Intracranial Rosai-Dorfman disease in a child: A case report and literature review].	颅内Rosai-Dorfman病(Rosai-Dorfman disease，RDD)是一类临床罕见的组织细胞增生性疾病。中南大学湘雅医院收治1例12岁颅内RDD患儿，主诉为头痛、头晕1个月，行肿瘤全切除手术，术后应用激素及化学药物治疗。随访8个月，病情稳定，未见肿瘤复发。对于此类肿瘤且有进展趋势者，应用立体定向活检术有助于明确诊断及手术方案的选择(如骨瓣取舍等)。本病以手术干预为主，辅以放射治疗、化学药物治疗及激素治疗等方案，且手术应在不影响神经功能的情况下力求全切肿瘤。.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31303626	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303626	headache
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Comparing Outcomes of Patients With Idiopathic Subarachnoid Hemorrhage by Stratifying Perimesencephalic Bleeding Patterns.	These data suggest that patients with the best clinical course were those in Peri-1, followed by Peri-2, and then diffuse. Because these patients often present with similar clinical signs, stratifying by hemorrhage pattern may help clinicians predict which patients with perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage develop complications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303438	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303438	headache
Neurointervention	Off-Label Application of Pipeline Embolization Device for Intracranial Aneurysms.	For anterior circulation aneurysms, the off-label application of PED is as effective and safe as reported for on-label intracranial aneurysms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31302986	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302986	headache
International journal of epidemiology	Headache, tinnitus and hearing loss in the international Cohort Study of Mobile Phone Use and Health (COSMOS) in Sweden and Finland.	People using mobile phones most extensively for making or receiving calls at baseline reported weekly headaches slightly more frequently at follow-up than other users, but this finding largely disappeared after adjustment for confounders and was not related to call-time in GSM with higher RF-EMF exposure. Tinnitus and hearing loss were not associated with amount of call-time.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302690	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302690	headache
Wilderness & environmental medicine	Pediatric High Altitude Cerebral Edema in the Nepal Himalayas.	High altitude cerebral edema (HACE) is a rare complication of ascent to altitudes of over 2500 m (8200 ft). We are not aware of a previously published case report of HACE in a patient under the age of 18 y. We report on 2 cases of suspected HACE in 2 patients, aged 12 and 16 y, who presented to the Manang Himalayan Rescue Association clinic at 3500 m. The 16-y-old patient presented with severe headache, vomiting, and ataxia after rapid ascent to 3800 m. The 12-y-old patient presented with severe headache, vomiting, visual disturbances, and ataxia at 4500 m, which began to resolve with descent to the clinic at 3500 m. Our cases suggest that HACE can occur in children and adolescents. Because there are no specific guidelines for treatment of acute mountain sickness or HACE in patients under the age of 18 y, we recommend treatment as for adults: oxygen, immediate descent, and dexamethasone. Simulated descent in a portable hyperbaric chamber can be used if oxygen is not available and if actual descent is not possible.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301992	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301992	headache
Journal of neurointerventional surgery	Curative treatment for low-grade arteriovenous malformations.	Curative treatment of SM I-II AVMs can be performed using endovascular embolization with microsurgical resection or radiosurgery in selected cases, with very low morbidity and high cure rates. Compared with other published series, these outcomes suggest that preoperative embolization is a safe and effective adjunct to definitive surgical treatment. Long-term follow-up showed that patients with low-grade AVMs undergoing surgical resection or radiosurgery have good functional outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300533	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300533	headache
BMC ophthalmology	A cerebral arteriovenous malformation mistakenly diagnosed as dry eye and glaucoma: a case report.	In clinical practice, when corkscrew hyperaemia accompanied by neurological symptoms is found, cerebral vascular diseases might be considered. In this case, the ophthalmologist's diagnosis should combine disease history and imaging examination.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299930	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299930	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	PACAP27 induces migraine-like attacks in migraine patients.	PACAP27 triggers migraine attacks without aura. These novel data strengthen the role of PACAP and its receptors in migraine pathogenesis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299857	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299857	headache
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Predictors of Severity in Scrub Typhus.	Scrub typhus can manifest with potentially life-threatening complications such as meningoencephalitis, septic shock, ARDS, acute liver failure, acute kidney injury, severe thrombocytopenia. Leukocytosis, hyperbilirubinemia, transaminitis, hypoalbuminemia, and uremia were associated with organ failure and were significantly associated with morbidity and mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31299836	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299836	headache
The Journal of craniofacial surgery	Toothache as a Warning Sign of Subarachnoid Hemorrhage Postmortem Findings.	The symptoms of sudden severe headache and/or diminished consciousness characterize the onset of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). However, several studies have suggested that some patients show an atypical presentation at the onset: symptoms lacking sudden headache and diminished consciousness. These atypical symptoms can easily lead to misdiagnosis. This paper reported the death cases of acute aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage with toothache as the first symptom, hoping to provide clinical evidence for the general public doctors to reduce the misdiagnosis and delayed diagnosis of SAH, improve the identification ability of SAH, and prevent such death events from happening again.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299799	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299799	headache
The Journal of craniofacial surgery	Sino-Nasal Anatomical Variations in Rhinogenic Headache Pathogenesis.	Rhinogenic headache (RH) is a widespread pain syndrome but its pathogenesis and treatment are still unclear. Some authors recognize a correlation between RH and mucosal contact points or some other sinonasal anatomical variations. The authors conducted a retrospective case-control study to analyze the correlation between radiological findings and clinical symptoms.One hundred-nineteen adults with Para-Nasal Sinuses Computed Tomography (PNS-CT) scans were included: 64 patients who have originally undergone PNS-CT scan as part of rhinogenic headache workup (Group A), and 55 controls in whom PNS-CT scans were obtained for other purposes (Group B). All subjects were asked to report their symptoms using a headache scoring system. PNS-CT scans of all subjects were analyzed for presence of mucosal contact points, middle turbinate concha bullosa (MTCB) and frontoethmoidal cells.The most common anatomical abnormality found in our series was MTCB, reported in 60.9% of patients in Group A and 41.8% of those in Group B. A statistically significant prevalence was found in Group A compared to Group B regarding the presence of MTCB (P = 0.037) and Type II (P = 0.016) and Type III (P = 0.039) frontoethmoidal cells. No statistically significant difference (P >0.05) was found between Group A and Group B regarding the presence of mucosal contact points at each site.Multiple anatomical variations in nasal and paranasal sinuses may cause a rhinogenic headache with different characteristics. Some of these, such as concha bullosa of middle turbinate or type II and III Kuhn cells, have shown a significant association with rhinogenic headache. No statistically significant association was found between presence of headache and mucosal contact points and type I and IV frontal cells. These findings can be very helpful for the surgeons that want to deal with the treatment of RH.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299754	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299754	headache
Neuroscience	Relief Following Chronic Stress Augments Spreading Depolarization Susceptibility in Familial Hemiplegic Migraine Mice.	Cortical spreading depolarization (CSD) is the electrophysiological substrate of migraine aura, and a putative trigger of trigeminovascular activation and migraine headache. Many migraineurs report stress or relief after a stress triggers an attack. We tested whether various stress conditions might modulate CSD susceptibility and whether this is dependent on genetic factors. Male and female wild type and familial hemiplegic migraine type1 (FHM1) knock-in mice heterozygous for the S218 L missense mutation were subjected to acute or chronic stress, or chronic stress followed by relief (36 h). Acute stress was induced by restraint and exposure to bright light and white noise (3 h). Chronic stress was induced for 28 days by two cycles of repeated exposure of mice to a rat (7d), physical restraint (3d), and forced swimming (3d). Electrical CSD threshold and KCl-induced (300 mM) CSD frequency were determined in occipital cortex in vivo at the end of each protocol. Relief after chronic stress reduced the electrical CSD threshold and increased the frequency of KCl-induced CSDs in FHM1 mutants only. Acute or chronic stress without relief did not affect CSD susceptibility in either strain. Stress status did not affect CSD propagation speed, duration or amplitude. In summary, relief after chronic stress, but not acute or chronic stress alone, augments CSD in genetically susceptible mice. Therefore, enhanced CSD susceptibility may explain why, in certain patients, migraine attacks typically occur during a period of stress relief such as weekends or holidays.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299346	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299346	headache
Headache	Spontaneous Intracranial Hypotension: 10 Myths and Misperceptions - An Editorial Comment.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31297812	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297812	headache
Headache	Observational Study Designs.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31297809	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297809	headache
Headache	Pneumocephalus Associated With Spontaneous Intracranial Hypotension.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297808	headache
Northern clinics of Istanbul	Congenital mirror movement associated with migraine: A case report.	Mirror movements occur in early childhood due to the maturation of the corpus callosum of noncrossing motor pathways. Such movements are considered normal until the age of 10 and are rarely reported in children older than 10 years. Mirror movements are involuntary movements that occur in the homologous contralateral extremity on voluntary activation. Permanent mirror movements can occur with anomalies; however, also are reported familial and sporadic cases. Migraine is the most common primary headache in childhood. Its prevalence ranges from 1% to 3% between the ages of 3 and 7, and from 8% to 23% in the adolescence. The prevalence of migraine in adolescent girls is higher. For the migraine diagnosis, the imaging studies are unnecessary, and a detailed history and physical examination are sufficient. In this study, we present a case of a 17-year-old girl with mirror movements accompanied by migraine.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Turkey	31297488	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297488	headache
Northern clinics of Istanbul	Origin of polyps and accompanying sinonasal pathologies in patients with antrochoanal polyp: Analysis of 22 patients.	Although the origin of ACP cannot be detected in the paranasal sinus tomography scan, accompanying sinonasal pathologies should be preoperatively identified. Development of angled endoscopes and angled instruments enabling easy removal of cystic lesions renders endoscopic sinus surgery sufficient for the treatment of ACP.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31297484	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297484	headache
BMJ case reports	Catch me if you can: disappearing and reappearing posterior fossa dural arteriovenous malformation.	We report an unusual case of a dural arteriovenous fistula (dAVF) presenting as acute neck pain and quadripareis in a 55-year-old previously healthy man. Imaging was suspicious for cervicomedullary venous thrombosis and angiography failed to show evidence of arteriovenous malformation or dAVF. The patient was started on warfarin for a presumed cervicomedullary venous thrombosis and there was a significant clinical improvement. However, 3 weeks later, the symptoms recurred and repeat angiography revealed a dAVF fed by a posterior branch of the left middle meningeal artery draining into the posterior fossa vein. We postulated that warfarin caused recanalisation of the previously thrombosed venous pouch allowing for angiographic discovery and treatment of the dAVF. The dAVF was embolised with onyx resulting in the complete obliteration of the dAVF and symptomatic improvement. Although rare, some dAVF can be concealed or disappear on angiography due to thrombosis of the draining vein and warfarin can lead to recanalisation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296639	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296639	headache
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Anterior Cerebral Artery Dissection in a Patient With Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease.	Intracranial artery dissection secondary to autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is far less common than cerebral aneurysm. A 55-year-old man presented a sudden onset of headache and disturbed consciousness caused by ischemic stroke in the bilateral frontal lobes with minor subarachnoid hemorrhage. The bilateral anterior cerebral arteries were firstly occluded and re-perfused with irregular narrowing and dilation in 3 days after stroke onset, indicating dissection. He was diagnosed with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease by abdominal CT findings and by his family history though his renal function was almost normal. Dissection in the anterior cerebral artery has not been reported previously, while some cases with dissection in the vertebral and extracranial arteries were reported in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. His family also had a history of aortic dissection and subarachnoid hemorrhage. Intracranial artery dissection may be a manifestation of systemic arteriopathy with familial clustering in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. Strict antihypertensive treatment is needed in these cases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296478	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296478	headache
Advances in immunology	Airway mycosis in allergic airway disease.	The allergic airway diseases, including chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS), asthma, allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis (ABPM) and many others, comprise a heterogeneous collection of inflammatory disorders affecting the upper and lower airways and lung parenchyma that represent the most common chronic diseases of humanity. In addition to their shared tissue tropism, the allergic airway diseases are characterized by a distinct pattern of inflammation involving the accumulation of eosinophils, type 2 macrophages, innate lymphoid cells type 2 (ILC2), IgE-secreting B cells, and T helper type 2 (Th2) cells in airway tissues, and the prominent production of type 2 cytokines including interleukin (IL-) 33, IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, and many others. These factors and related inflammatory molecules induce characteristic remodeling and other changes of the airways that include goblet cell metaplasia, enhanced mucus secretion, smooth muscle hypertrophy, tissue swelling and polyp formation that account for the major clinical manifestations of nasal obstruction, headache, hyposmia, cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, wheezing, and, in the most severe cases of lower airway disease, death due to respiratory failure or disseminated, systemic disease. The syndromic nature of the allergic airway diseases that now include many physiological variants or endotypes suggests that distinct endogenous or environmental factors underlie their expression. However, findings from different perspectives now collectively link these disorders to a single infectious source, the fungi, and a molecular pathogenesis that involves the local production of airway proteinases by these organisms. In this review, we discuss the evidence linking fungi and their proteinases to the surprisingly wide variety of chronic airway and systemic disorders and the immune pathogenesis of these conditions as they relate to environmental fungi. We further discuss the important implications these new findings have for the diagnosis and future therapy of these common conditions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296304	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296304	headache
The American journal of gastroenterology	Prucalopride in Gastroparesis: A Randomized Placebo-Controlled Crossover Study.	In a cohort of patients with predominantly idiopathic gastroparesis, 4 weeks of prucalopride treatment significantly improved symptoms and quality of life and enhanced gastric emptying compared with placebo.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295161	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295161	headache
Headache	Headache and Hypoglossal Nerve Palsy in a Child With Idiopathic Hypertrophic Pachymeningitis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294820	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294820	headache
Journal of psychopharmacology (Oxford, England)	Adjunctive minocycline for major mental disorders: A systematic review.	PROSPERO: CRD42018102483.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294649	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294649	headache
The Journal of pharmacy and pharmacology	Cannabinoid receptors in osteoporosis and osteoporotic pain: a narrative update of review.	Multiple-targeting against glial cells, CB receptors and TRPV1 channel may be one effective therapeutic strategy for osteoporotic pain in the future, following the elucidation of the complicated mechanism.	2019	eng	Review	England	31294469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294469	headache
Research and practice in thrombosis and haemostasis	A prospective study of migraine history and venous thromboembolism in older adults.	This study does not support the hypothesis that migraine history is an important risk factor for VTE in older adults.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294322	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294322	headache
European journal of case reports in internal medicine	Bilateral Internuclear Ophthalmoplegia in a Young Woman with Vertebral Artery Dissection.	A vascular aetiology should be suspected when internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO) presents with an intense headache.Almost a third of patients with bilateral INO have an identified vascular cause.Magnetic resonance imaging is the gold standard for investigating INO.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31293990	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293990	headache
Frontiers in neurology	Use of Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers in Diagnosis and Monitoring of Rheumatoid Meningitis.	Rheumatoid meningitis is a rare extra-articular manifestation of rheumatoid arthritis, often with non-specific symptoms. In most cases brain MRI shows a patchy lepto- and pachymeningeal enhancement, but the diagnosis currently relies on examination of a meningeal biopsy with presence of plasma cells and rheumatoid noduli. Presence of IgM rheumatic factor (RF) has been found in several cases and recently four cases have shown high titer anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) in CSF, suggesting this as a potential marker for rheumatoid meningitis. We present a 62 year-old woman with sero-positive (IgM RF and anti-CCP) rheumatoid arthritis, presenting with headache and gait impairment. Brain MRI revealed the classical patchy meningeal enhancement and the diagnosis of rheumatoid meningitis was confirmed by neuropathological examination of a meningeal biopsy. Analysis of the CSF revealed positive IgM RF (92.7 IU/mL) and strongly positive anti-CCP (19,600 IU/mL) and CXCL-13 (>500 ng/L). After treatment with high-dose steroid and Rituximab the clinical symptoms resolved. A 6 month follow-up analysis of CSF showed a dramatic decrease in all these markers with negative IgM RF and a decrease in both anti-CCP (64 IU/mL) and CXCL-13 (<10 ng/L). Our case further underlines the potential use of CSF anti-CCP and IgM RF in the diagnosis of RM and the use of these markers and CXCL-13 in evaluation of treatment response. A case review of 48 cases of rheumatoid meningitis published since 2010, including, symptoms, serum, and CSF findings, treatment, and outcome is provided.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Switzerland	31293505	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293505	headache
Zoonoses and public health	Dynamics of Puumala hantavirus outbreak in Black Sea Region, Turkey.	Hantaviruses are circulating in Turkey and causing sporadic or epidemic infection in humans. Additional investigations are needed to better understand the dynamics of hantaviruses in this country.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31293096	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293096	headache
Journal of oral rehabilitation	Mobility of the upper cervical spine and muscle performance of the deep flexors in women with temporomandibular disorders.	Women with TMDs, regardless of self-reported headaches, showed limited flexion/extension ROM, limited upper cervical spine (C1-C2) mobility, and poor deep cervical flexor performance. Neck disability and temporomandibular pain showed a moderate correlation with the functional test findings, i.e. FRT and CCFT, in subjects with TMDs. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292981	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292981	headache
Environmental science and pollution research international	Increased DNA damage is not associated to polymorphisms in OGGI DNA repair gene, CYP2E1 detoxification gene, and biochemical and hematological findings in soybeans farmers from Central Brazil.	Our study evaluated 163 individuals, being 74 soybean farmers, occupationally exposed to pesticides, and 89 individuals from Goias municipalities, Central Brazil, with similar conditions to the exposed group, comprising the control group. Of the 74 soybean farmers, 43 exposed directly to pesticides and 31 exposed indirectly. The exposed group consisted of individuals aged 19 to 63 years, 21 women and 53 men, and the control group had ages ranging from 18 to 64 years, being 36 women and 53 men. 18.9% of the exposed group were poisoned by pesticides, and the most common symptoms were headache and gastrointestinal problems. The genotype frequencies of the rs2031920 (T>C) polymorphism in the CYP2E1 gene present significant differences between the exposed and control groups (p = 0.02), showing that 24.3% of the exposed group were heterozygotes against 6.7% in the control group. For the OGG1 gene, two SNPs, rs1052133 (G>C) and rs293795 (T>C), were evaluated and the genotype frequencies were not statistically different between the exposed and control groups. The DNA damage was distinct (p < 0.05) in the three analyzed comet parameters (tail length, Olive tail moment, %DNA) between groups. However, there was no influence of age and alcohol consumption between the groups associated with the polymorphisms in the CYP2E1 and OGG1 genes and DNA damage. We also did not find altered hematological and biochemical parameters in the exposed group. Thus, this pioneering study at Goias State carried out an overview of the health of soybean farmers. We evaluated classic laboratory exams, associated with exposure markers (comet assay) and susceptibility markers (genetic polymorphisms), emphasizing the need to expand the Brazilian health assessment protocol. We found, in soybean farmers, increased DNA damage and a higher number of heterozygotes in CYP2E1 gene, compared with the control group, despite the lack of association with age, educational level, smoking, drinking habits, and genetic polymorphisms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31292876	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292876	headache
Brain : a journal of neurology	Opening of ATP-sensitive potassium channels causes migraine attacks: a new target for the treatment of migraine.	Migraine is one of the most disabling and prevalent of all disorders. To improve understanding of migraine mechanisms and to suggest a new therapeutic target, we investigated whether opening of ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP) would cause migraine attacks. In this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, 16 patients aged 18-49 years with one to five migraine attacks a month were randomly allocated to receive an infusion of 0.05 mg/min KATP channel opener levcromakalim and placebo on two different days (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03228355). The primary endpoints were the difference in incidence of migraine attacks, headaches and the difference in area under the curve (AUC) for headache intensity scores (0-12 h) and for middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity (0-2 h) between levcromakalim and placebo. Between 24 May 2017 and 23 November 2017, 16 patients randomly received levcromakalim and placebo on two different days. Sixteen patients (100%) developed migraine attacks after levcromakalim compared with one patient (6%) after placebo (P = 0.0001); the difference of incidence is 94% [95% confidence interval (CI) 78-100%]. The incidence of headache over the 12 h observation period was higher but not significant after levcromakalim (n = 16) than after placebo (n = 7) (P = 0.016) (95% CI 16-71%). The AUC for headache intensity was significantly larger after levcromakalim compared to placebo (AUC0-12h, P < 0.0001). There was no change in mean middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity after levcromakalim compared to placebo (AUC0-2hP = 0.46). Opening of KATP channels caused migraine attacks in all patients. This suggests a crucial role of these channels in migraine pathophysiology and that KATP channel blockers could be potential targets for novel drugs for migraine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292608	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292608	headache
Trials	Cervicogenic headache treated by acupuncture based on jin theory: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.	Chinese Clinical Trial Registry, ChiCTR1800015316 . Registered on 22 March 2018. Updated version AMCTR-IOR-18000157 . Registered on 1 April 2018.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291977	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291977	headache
The journal of headache and pain	Diffusion tensor imaging in middle-aged headache sufferers in the general population: a cross-sectional population-based imaging study in the Nord-Trøndelag health study (HUNT-MRI).	Middle-age onset headache may be related to a widespread process in the white matter leading to altered microstructure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291903	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291903	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Diagnostic delay of cluster headache: A cohort study from the Danish Cluster Headache Survey.	Diagnostic delay was reduced for every decade investigated, whereas some atypical cluster headache features were associated with prolonged diagnostic delay. Better medical education and more disease awareness are needed to prevent misdiagnosis and prolonged diagnostic delay.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291778	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291778	headache
The New England journal of medicine	Trial of Galcanezumab in Prevention of Episodic Cluster Headache.	Galcanezumab administered subcutaneously at a dose of 300 mg once monthly reduced the weekly frequency of attacks of episodic cluster headache across weeks 1 through 3 after the initial injection, as compared with placebo. (Funded by Eli Lilly; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02397473.).	2019	eng	Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't	United States	31291515	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291515	headache
European journal of neurology	The cost and the value of treatment of medication overuse headache in Italy: a longitudinal study based on patient-derived data.	The cost of MOH around the period of structured treatment protocol is much higher compared to previous estimates. Our protocol is cost-effective for reducing the economic burden of MOH. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291494	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291494	headache
PloS one	Relating excitatory and inhibitory neurochemicals to visual perception: A magnetic resonance study of occipital cortex between migraine events.	Certain perceptual measures have been proposed as indirect assays of brain neurochemical status in people with migraine. One such measure is binocular rivalry, however, previous studies have not measured rivalry characteristics and brain neurochemistry together in people with migraine. This study compared spectroscopy-measured levels of GABA and Glx (glutamine and glutamate complex) in visual cortex between 16 people with migraine and 16 non-headache controls, and assessed whether the concentration of these neurochemicals explains, at least partially, inter-individual variability in binocular rivalry perceptual measures. Mean Glx level was significantly reduced in migraineurs relative to controls, whereas mean occipital GABA levels were similar between groups. Neither GABA levels, nor Glx levels correlated with rivalry percept duration. Our results thus suggest that the previously suggested relationship between rivalry percept duration and GABAergic inhibitory neurotransmitter concentration in visual cortex is not strong enough to enable rivalry percept duration to be reliably assumed to be a surrogate for GABA concentration, at least in the context of healthy individuals and those that experience migraine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291247	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291247	headache
PLoS neglected tropical diseases	Detection of Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever cases in a severe undifferentiated febrile illness outbreak in the Federal Republic of Sudan: a retrospective epidemiological and diagnostic cohort study.	CCHFV is an important cause of fever and haemorrhage in Darfur, but not the sole major source of UFI outbreaks in Sudan. Prospective studies are needed to explore other aetiologies, including novel pathogens. The presence of CCHFV has critical infection, prevention and control as well as clinical implications for future response. Our study reinforces the need to boost surveillance, lab and investigative capacity to underpin effective response, and for local and international health security.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291242	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291242	headache
Headache	Targeting CGRP for the Prevention of Migraine and Cluster Headache: A Narrative Review.	Calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP), a neuropeptide broadly distributed in neuronal and non-neuronal regions throughout the body, plays a fundamental role in migraine and cluster headache (CH) pathophysiology. CGRP functional blockade alleviates neurogenic inflammation and reduces pain pathway sensitization. Two types of CGRP function-blocking modalities, monoclonal antibodies (MAbs), and small molecules (gepants), have been designed to target the CGRP ligands and CGRP receptors. In this narrative review, we summarized the latest clinical trials on gepants and CGRP function-blocking MAbs for migraine and CH prevention. At the time of writing, newer gepants are currently under Federal Drug Administration (FDA) review for migraine management, but there is no study yet on the usage of gepants for CH. Erenumab, fremanezumab, and galcanezumab have been approved by the FDA for migraine prevention while eptinezumab is under FDA review. CGRP MAbs are as effective as and more tolerable than conventional migraine preventives. For CH prevention, galcanezumab has shown some promising findings and was recently approved for use in episodic cluster prevention. CGRP function-blocking therapy not only demonstrates high efficacy and superior safety profile, but also improves headache frequency and quality of life. Convenient monthly dosing for the MAbs can further improve medication adherence, hence better headache control. With CGRP function-blocking therapy showing efficacy even in individuals who failed other preventives, it has become an exciting new therapeutic option in the field of migraine and CH.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31291020	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291020	headache
Headache	Emerging Treatment Targets for Migraine and Other Headaches.	Migraine is a complex disorder that is characterized by an assortment of neurological and systemic effects. While headache is the most prominent feature of migraine, a host of symptoms affecting many physiological functions are also observed before, during, and after an attack. Furthermore, migraineurs are heterogeneous and have a wide range of responses to migraine therapies. The recent approval of calcitonin gene-related-peptide based therapies has opened up the treatment of migraine and generated a renewed interest in migraine research and discovery. Ongoing advances in migraine research have identified a number of other promising therapeutic targets for this disorder. In this review, we highlight emergent treatments within the following biological systems: pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptdie, 2 non-mu opioid receptors that have low abuse liability - the delta and kappa opioid receptors, orexin, and nitric oxide-based therapies. Multiple mechanisms have been identified in the induction and maintenance of migraine symptoms; and this divergent set of targets have highly distinct biological effects. Increasing the mechanistic diversity of the migraine tool box will lead to more treatment options and better patient care.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31291018	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291018	headache
Headache	Neuromodulation for the Acute and Preventive Therapy of Migraine and Cluster Headache.	Headache disorders are among the most common and disabling medical conditions worldwide. Pharmacologic acute and preventive treatments are often insufficient and poorly tolerated, and the majority of patients are unable to adhere to their migraine treatments due to these issues. With improvements in our understanding of migraine and cluster headache pathophysiology, neuromodulation devices have been developed as safe and effective acute and preventive treatment options. In this review, we focus on neuromodulation devices that have been studied for migraine and cluster headache, with special attention to those that have gained food and drug administration (FDA) clearance. We will also explore how these devices can be used in patients who might have limited pharmacologic options, including the elderly, children, and pregnant women.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31291017	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291017	headache
Headache	Targeting CGRP and 5-HT	Current available therapies have either been nonspecific or had important limitations, including in patients with cardiovascular risk factors. Phase III clinical trials of lasmiditan, rimegepant and ubrogepant all met their primary endpoints, so the options for migraine-targeted acute therapy will likely soon increase.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31291016	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291016	headache
The international journal of neuropsychopharmacology	Efficacy and Safety of Fixed-Dose Esketamine Nasal Spray Combined With a New Oral Antidepressant in Treatment-Resistant Depression: Results of a Randomized, Double-Blind, Active-Controlled Study (TRANSFORM-1).	ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02417064.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31290965	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290965	headache
Expert opinion on pharmacotherapy	Efficacy and safety of brexpiprazole as adjunctive treatment in major depressive disorder: overview of four short-term studies.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31290344	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290344	headache
Brain pathology (Zurich, Switzerland)	A 55-year-old male with 3-week headache.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31290231	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290231	headache
Headache	61	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290138	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290138	headache
Pain and therapy	Effect of Migraine Headache on Productivity of Patients According to Migraine Disability Assessment Score: A Cross-Sectional Study.	The majority of migraine patients were found to have severe disability, which affected their daily work and social activities. Despite an increase in disability rate due to migraine, people do not seek regular medical care for this type of headache in Pakistan.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31290014	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290014	headache
Child's nervous system : ChNS : official journal of the International Society for Pediatric Neurosurgery	Long-term efficacy of superficial temporal artery ligation and auriculotemporal nerve transection for temporal cluster headache in adolescent.	Results in this study indicate that the sustained headache can be relieved after SLAT in adolescent patients with intractable TCH.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31289856	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289856	headache
Malaysian family physician : the official journal of the Academy of Family Physicians of Malaysia	Isolated sphenoid sinusitis: A big headache.	 	2019	eng	Case Reports	Malaysia	31289629	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289629	headache
Scientific reports	The safety and preventive effects of a supraorbital transcutaneous stimulator in Japanese migraine patients.	Cefaly (Cefaly Technology, Seraing, Belgium) is a device that stimulates the bilateral supraorbital nerve transcutaneously. A previous study in Europe proved that Cefaly was an effective and safe device as a preventive therapy for migraine. However, there have been no studies on this device in Asia. We examined the safety and preventive effect of Cefaly for migraine. One-hundred patients were prospectively collected from four headache units in Japan. The inclusion criteria were as follows: 18-75 years of age, migraine with and without aura, and at least 2 attacks per month. A 4-week baseline period was followed by 12-week treatment period. The primary end point was the change from baseline in the number of migraine days at 12 weeks. The secondary end points include the changes of the number of migraine attacks, all headache days, acute medicine consumption days and headache severity. After treatment, a questionnaire survey on the satisfaction of the treatment was administered to the patients. The Friedmann test was used to assess the changes between baseline period and after treatment, and Mann-Whitney U test was used for the comparison of efficacy between chronic migraine and episodic migraine, with and without prophylactic treatment or medication overuse. After 12 weeks of treatment, Cefaly use significantly decreased the number of migraine days (8.16 vs. 6.84; p = 0.0036). Only three subjects (3.0%) dropped out due to the adverse effects; however, no serious adverse events were observed. The compliance of this study was very high at 90.0%. Furthermore, a significant decrease was observed in the number of migraine attacks (5.33 vs. 3.94; p = 0.0002) and the intake of acute antimigraine drugs (8.75 vs. 7.83; p = 0.0166). Cefaly is considered to be a safe and highly tolerable effective device for Japanese patients. Trial registration: This study was retrospectively registered to UMIN-CTR(UMIN000033333) on 10 July 2018.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289281	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289281	headache
BMJ case reports	A challenging presentation of invasive nasopharyngeal sarcomatoid carcinoma.	Sarcomatoid carcinoma is a rare clinical entity, especially when presenting in the nasopharynx. We describe the first documented case of nasopharyngeal sarcomatoid carcinoma with intracranial extension in a 59-year-old Caucasian man presenting with severe bifrontal headache and diplopia, secondary to left abducens nerve palsy. We highlight some of the major diagnostic challenges and describe its unusual histological appearance. We outline the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to his management, which includes input from the medicine, neurosurgery, Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT), pathology, radiology, oncology and respiratory teams. In the context of limited evidence, we then describe the rationale to proceed with induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Although there was a partial response to treatment, it was not sufficient enough to allow subsequent surgical clearance. The plan going forward is to palliate with chemotherapy as and when the disease progresses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289153	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289153	headache
Deutsches Arzteblatt international	Antidepressant Withdrawal and Rebound Phenomena.	A robust evidence base now indicates that there can be acute with- drawal phenomena when antidepressants are discontinued. Putative rebound phenomena have not been adequately studied to date. It is recommended that antidepressants should be tapered off over a period of more than four weeks.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31288917	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288917	headache
The journal of headache and pain	Fluctuations of sensorimotor processing in migraine: a controlled longitudinal study of beta event related desynchronization.	Increased preictal baseline beta activity may reflect a decrease in pre-activation in the sensorimotor cortex. Altered pre-activation may lead to changes in thresholds for inhibitory responses and increased beta-ERD response, possibly reflecting a generally increased preictal cortical responsivity in migraine. Cyclic fluctuations in the activity of second- and third-order afferent somatosensory neurons, and their associated cortical and/or thalamic interneurons, may accordingly also be a central part of the migraine pathophysiology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288756	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288756	headache
Praxis	[Interdisciplinary Management of Sellar Masses].	None	2019	ger	Journal Article	Switzerland	31288663	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288663	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Targeting CGRP via receptor antagonism and antibody neutralisation in two distinct rodent models of migraine-like pain.	The current data clearly show that calcitonin gene-related peptide-mediated signaling is critically involved in the manifestation of cutaneous hypersensitivity in distinct rodent models of migraine-like pain and emphasise their translational relevance. Moreover, the unexpected rapidity of onset observed for ALD405 supports i) a probable site of action outside the blood-brain barrier, and ii) a potential clinical utility of specific monoclonal calcitonin gene-related peptide antibodies in the abortive treatment of migraine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288556	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288556	headache
The journal of international advanced otology	Cholesterol Granulomas: A Comparative Meta-Analysis of Endonasal Endoscopic versus Open Approaches to the Petrous Apex.	Petrous apex cholesterol granulomas (PACG) are rare disorders that can lead to patient morbidity and must, occasionally, be drained by either endoscopic endonasal (EN) or open procedures (OP). The objective of our study was to complete a review of the literature to compare the EN and OP approaches on multiple levels, notably on safety and effectiveness. Ovid MEDLINE and Embase were used to perform a thorough literature review of all cases of PACG treated by either EN or OP dating from January 1948 to August 2017. In total, 49 articles were selected including 23 for EN (n=76) and 26 for OP (n=210). Differences were found in the incidence of preoperative hearing loss (HL) (EN 18.4%, OP 57.3%; p<0.001), headache (EN 48.7%, OP 31.2%; p=0.007), and disequilibrium (EN: 14.5%, OP 26.1%; p=0.04). Differences in lesion proximity to the sphenoid sinus (EN 23.6%, OP: 1.0%; p<0.001), clivus (EN 11.8%, OP 4.7%; p=0.03), otic capsule (EN 0.0%, OP 5.2%; p=0.03), internal auditory canal (EN 2.6%, OP 10.9%; p=0.01), and internal carotid artery (ICA) (EN 9.2%, OP 2.8%; p=0.02) were found on preoperative imaging. The EN procedure had better hearing improvement rates (EN 85.7%, OP 23.4%; p<0.001), lower complication rates (EN 7.9%, OP 17.6%; p=0.04), shorter median follow-up (EN:13.5 months, OP:37.2 months; p<0.001), and shorter time to recurrence (EN 3 months, OP 22.6 months; p=0.002) than the known OP. No differences were found in age, preoperative size, recurrence rate, operative time, stent placement, or improvement of other symptoms. Endoscopic nasal approaches, when feasible, should be favored to open procedures for PACG drainage given their better hearing improvement and less complication rates.	2019	eng	Review	Turkey	31287439	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287439	headache
Journal of clinical neurology (Seoul, Korea)	Clinical Significance of Asymmetric Minimum Intensity Projection Images of Brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Children.	Our data suggest that asymmetric mIP findings are an excellent lateralizing indicator in pediatric patients with partial epilepsy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31286707	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286707	headache
Journal of clinical neurology (Seoul, Korea)	Differences in Characteristics and Comorbidity of Cluster Headache According to the Presence of Migraine.	Distinct characteristics of CH remained unchanged in patients with comorbid migraine with the exception of an increased frequency of chronic CH. The most appropriate management of CH requires clinicians to check the history of preceding migraine, particularly in cases of chronic CH.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31286705	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286705	headache
Current pain and headache reports	Emerging Novel Pharmacological Non-opioid Therapies in Headache Management: a Comprehensive Review.	Patients who do not obtain relief from chronic head and neck pain from conservative treatments are commonly being managed with interventional treatments. These interventional treatment options include botulinum toxin A, injections, local occipital nerve anesthetic and corticosteroid infiltration, occipital nerve subcutaneous stimulation and occipital nerve pulsed radiofrequency (PRF), sphenopalatine ganglion block, and radiofrequency techniques. Recently, evidence has emerged to support non-opioid-based drug and interventional approaches. Overall, more research is necessary to clarify the safety and efficacy of interventional treatments and to better understand the pathogenesis of chronic headache pain.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31286276	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286276	headache
Journal of obstetrics and gynaecology Canada : JOGC = Journal d'obstetrique et gynecologie du Canada : JOGC	Safety of Cabergoline for Postpartum Lactation Inhibition or Suppression: A Systematic Review.	This study sought to perform a systematic review of adverse events reported with the use of cabergoline for postpartum lactation inhibition or suppression in women aged 15 to 50. Following registration with PROSPERO (CRD42017049894), a comprehensive search of the Ovid databases Medline, Embase, and CENTRAL, along with PubMed, was conducted from January 1, 1985 to January 25, 2018. All study designs investigating cabergoline use for postpartum lactation inhibition or suppression in women aged 15 to 50 were included. A total of 695 articles were retrieved, and 25 articles were eligible for inclusion. Adverse events were then reported in terms of frequency, with percentages calculated according to the total number of women exposed to the intervention. A bias assessment of the articles was also performed. Among a total of 757 women, 108 adverse events were observed in 96 women (14.2%). The most common adverse events were dizziness (35 of 757), headache (30 of 757), and nausea or vomiting (19 of 757). These events were described as short-lived, self-resolving, and dose dependent. One pharmacovigilance study reported 29 "serious" events from a total of 175 events in 72 case reports, which included thromboembolic and neurologic events. Four case studies specifically addressed the psychiatric population, with one half reporting psychiatric symptoms following administration of cabergoline. In conclusion, this systematic review demonstrates that adverse events were generally benign and tolerable following the administration of cabergoline. However, pharmacovigilance data reveal that vigilance is still needed given the occurrence of rare but serious events.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31285168	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285168	headache
The Lancet. Neurology	Safety and efficacy of opicinumab in patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis (SYNERGY): a randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 2 trial.	Biogen.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285147	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285147	headache
The Lancet. Infectious diseases	Outbreak of human monkeypox in Nigeria in 2017-18: a clinical and epidemiological report.	None.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31285143	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285143	headache
Stroke	Intrinsic Coagulation Pathway, History of Headache, and Risk of Ischemic Stroke.	Background and Purpose- Hypercoagulable states in migraine patients may play a role in the pathophysiology underlying the association between migraine and ischemic stroke. This study aims to provide more insight into the potential association of headache, ischemic stroke, and the intrinsic coagulation pathway. Methods- We included patients from the RATIO study (Risk of Arterial Thrombosis in Relation to Oral Contraceptives), a Dutch population-based case-control study including young women (age <50) with ischemic stroke and healthy controls. We defined a headache group based on a questionnaire on headache history. Intrinsic coagulation proteins were measured through both antigen levels (FXII, FXI, prekallikrein, HK [high molecular weight kininogen]) and protein activation, determined by measuring activated protein complex with C1esterase-inhibitor (FXIIa-C1-INH, FXIa-C1-INH, Kallikrein-C1-INH) or antitrypsin-inhibitor (FXIa-AT-INH). We calculated adjusted odds ratios and performed an interaction analysis assessing the increase in stroke risk associated with high levels of intrinsic coagulation and history of headache. Results- We included 113 ischemic stroke cases and 598 healthy controls. In total, 134 (19%) patients had a history of headache, of whom 38 were cases and 96 controls. The combination of headache and high intrinsic coagulation protein levels (all but FXII antigen level and both FXIa-inhibitors) was associated with an increase in ischemic stroke risk higher than was expected based on their individual effects (adjusted odds ratio FXI antigen level alone: 1.7, 95% CI, 1.0-2.9; adjusted odds ratio headache alone: 2.0, 95% CI, 1.1-3.7; combination: 5.2, 95% CI, 2.3-11.6) Conclusions- Headache and high intrinsic coagulation protein levels may biologically interact, increasing risk for ischemic stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31284847	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284847	headache
Journal of child health care : for professionals working with children in the hospital and community	Erratum.	Phonpruk K, Flowers, K, Naughton G, et al. (2019). Analysis of written resources for parents of children discharged from a paediatric emergency department. 	2019	eng	Published Erratum	England	31284733	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284733	headache
The Korean journal of parasitology	Neurocysticercosis: Clinical Characteristics and Changes from 26 Years of Experience in an University Hospital in Korea.	The prevalence of human taeniasis has decreased in Korea. The stool egg positive proportion decreased from 1.9% in 1971 to 0% in 2004 in nationwide surveys. The neurocysticercosis (NCC) is also presumed to decrease. However, detailed information regarding the recent status of NCC in Korea is lacking. We retrospectively reviewed NCC cases from 1990 to 2016 at Asan Medical Center, a 2700-bed tertiary referral hospital in Korea. We identified patients based on clinical symptoms, brain imaging, pathology and serological assay. The cases were classified as parenchymal, extraparenchymal, and mixed NCC. Eighty-one patients were included in the analysis. The mean age was 54.5 years, and 79.0% were male. The number of NCC cases was highest from 1995 to 1999, and continuously decreased thereafter. Forty (49.4%) patients had parenchymal NCC, while 25 (30.9%) patients had extraparenchymal NCC, and 16 (19.8%) patients had mixed NCC. The seizure and headache were most common symptom of parenchymal NCC and extraparenchymal NCC respectively. Hydrocephalus was more common in extraparenchymal NCC, and patients with extraparenchymal NCC were more likely to require a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. Cases of NCC are decreasing accordingly with human taeniasis and lesion location was the most important determinant of clinical presentation and outcome of NCC in Korea.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31284349	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284349	headache
Neuropsychopharmacology reports	Suvorexant for insomnia in patients with psychiatric disorder: A 1-week, open-label study.	Suvorexant was beneficial for the treatment of insomnia in people with psychiatric disorders. However, this study was of short duration and included only a relatively small number of patients. A larger, long-term study is needed to investigate the efficacy and safety of suvorexant for insomnia in people with psychiatric disorders.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31283862	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283862	headache
Neurology international	The main neurologic diagnoses from a neurology outpatient clinic in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.	This study aims to evaluate the prevalence, distribution and clinical profile of neurological diseases and syndromes from a neurology outpatient clinic in the city of Rio de Janeiro. This is a quantitative, cross-sectional study. 180 medical records of firsttime visits conducted through 18 months were analyzed. Age, gender and comorbidities were collected to identify the sample's profile and the neurological diagnoses found were classified in predefined groups of syndromes according to the ICD-10 classification, which were further stratified according to age and gender. 157 (87,2%) of the patients had a neurological disease, of which the mean age was 51,05 years and 67,5% were women. The most frequent comorbidities were: hypertension (55,6%); dyslipidemia (20,4%); and diabetes (14,6%). The most common neurological diseases were: Sequelae of Cerebrovascular Disease (12,7%); Unspecified Dementia (8,9%); and Migraine without Aura (7,6%). The main neurological syndromes were: Headache (24,8%); Dementia (15,9%); Cerebrovascular Disease (13,4%); Movement Disorders (12,1%); and Radiculopathy (10,8%). The age and gender profile of these syndromes was further described. These data contribute to better understand the distribution of neurological diseases in the neurological outpatient setting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31281604	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281604	headache
Pain research & management	Juvenile Fibromyalgia and Headache Comorbidity in Children and Adolescents: A Literature Review.	Juvenile fibromyalgia (JFM) is a chronic pain syndrome with onset in developmental age, characterized by widespread musculoskeletal pain associated with other neurological or nonneurological symptoms. Headache is one of the most frequent comorbid conditions with JFM, but this association is still poorly studied in the juvenile population. The literature review was conducted searching through PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science with a combination of the following free-text terms: "fibromyalgia," "juvenile fibromyalgia," "headache," "primary headache," "migraine," "children," "adolescents," and "comorbidity." The research resulted only in two specific studies regarding comorbidity JFM + Juvenile Headache (JH). From each study, we extracted data about sample features, clinical characteristics of both JFM and PH, and assessment tools. The clinical approach to JFM and JH should include a complete examination of the main causes of comorbid diseases, thus improving the therapeutic approach to the patient in developmental age.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31281557	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281557	headache
Pain research & management	Personality and Personality Disorders in Medication-Overuse Headache: A Controlled Study by SWAP-200.	Although MOH, SUD, and PD populations have been evaluated in multiple sites with different levels of expertise, the study supported the presence of a specific constellation of personality in MOH patients including obsessive (perfectionist) and dysphoric characteristics, as well as good enough psychological resources. No similarities to drug-addicted and personality-disordered patients were found. Practitioners' careful understanding of the personality characteristics of MOH patients may be useful to provide a road map for the implementation of more effective treatment strategies and intervention programs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31281555	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281555	headache
Molecular biology reports	Cell signaling and cancer: a mechanistic insight into drug resistance.	Drug resistance is a major setback for advanced therapeutics in multiple cancers. The increasing prevalence of this resistance is a growing concern and bitter headache for the researchers since a decade. Hence, it is essential to revalidate the existing strategies available for cancer treatment and to look after a novel therapeutic approach for target based killing of cancer cells at the genetic level. This review outlines the different mechanisms enabling resistance including drug efflux, drug target alternation, alternative splicing, the release of the extracellular vesicle, tumor heterogeneity, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, tumor microenvironment, the secondary mutation in the receptor, epigenetic alternation, heterodimerization of receptors, amplification of target and amplification of components rather than the target. Furthermore, existing evidence and the role of various signaling pathways like EGFR, Ras, PI3K/Akt, Wnt, Notch, TGF-β, Integrin-ECM signaling in drug resistance are explained. Lastly, the prevention of this resistance by a contemporary therapeutic strategy, i.e., a combination of specific signaling pathway inhibitors and the cocktail of a cancer drug is summarized showing the new treatment strategies.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31280421	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280421	headache
World neurosurgery	Clivus Hemangioma in a pediatric patient: Case report.	Surgical safety margins are highly important to prevent recurrence in this type of bone tumors. Skull base hemangiomas are a big challenge when you want to achieve these safety margins. We believe that a combined treatment of surgery and radiotherapy should be considered as the main treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279922	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279922	headache
NeuroImage. Clinical	Impact of chronic migraine attacks and their severity on the endogenous μ-opioid neurotransmission in the limbic system.	Increased endogenous μ-opioid receptor-mediated neurotransmission is seen in the limbic system of CM patients, especially in right amygdala, which is highly modulated by the attack frequency, pain severity, and sensitivity. This study demonstrates for the first time the negative impact of chronification and exacerbation of headache attacks on the endogenous μ-opioid mechanisms of migraine patients. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03004313.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279240	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279240	headache
International journal of hematology	Comparative study on baseline clinical characteristics of Asian versus non-Asian patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.	A difference in clinical manifestations of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) among different races has been suggested. The aim of this study was to clarify whether the clinical characteristics of patients with PNH in the International PNH Registry differ by ethnic background. Patients, who were eculizumab naïve at baseline and had ≥ 1% PNH clone size, were eligible for this analysis. Totally, 1793 patients were enrolled and divided into two cohorts, Asian (N = 246) and non-Asian (N = 1547). The Asian cohort was further divided into Asians in Asia cohort (N = 202) and Asians in non-Asia cohort (N = 44), based on geographical region. The Asian cohort had significantly higher PNH clone size in granulocytes, higher lactate dehydrogenase levels, and lower hemoglobin levels. However, the frequencies of symptoms including abdominal pain, backache, easy bleeding, fatigue and headache at baseline were significantly lower in the Asian cohort. The proportion of patients with a history of thromboembolism (TE) was significantly lower in the Asian than in the non-Asian cohort (3.6% vs. 8.9%, P < 0.01); however, there was no difference between Asians in Asia and Asians in non-Asia (3.3% vs. 4.9%, P = 0.61). These findings suggested that genetic factors may play a stronger role in developing TE than lifestyle factors in PNH patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31278635	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278635	headache
Practical neurology	Managing cluster headache.	Cluster headache is a neurological disorder that presents with unilateral severe headache associated with ipsilateral cranial autonomic symptoms. Cluster headache attacks often occur more than once a day, and typically manifesting in bouts. It has a point prevalence of 1 in 1000 and is the most common trigeminal autonomic cephalalgia. This article aims to guide general neurologists to an accurate diagnosis and practical management options for cluster headache patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31278205	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278205	headache
Cancers	Postoperative Management in Patients with Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma.	Pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PPGLs) are rare catecholamine-secreting neuroendocrine tumors of the adrenal medulla and sympathetic/parasympathetic ganglion cells, respectively. Excessive release of catecholamines leads to episodic symptoms and signs of PPGL, which include hypertension, headache, palpitations, and diaphoresis. Intraoperatively, large amounts of catecholamines are released into the bloodstream through handling and manipulation of the tumor(s). In contrast, there could also be an abrupt decline in catecholamine levels after tumor resection. Because of such binary manifestations of PPGL, patients may develop perplexing and substantially devastating cardiovascular complications during the perioperative period. These complications include hypertension, hypotension, arrhythmias, myocardial infarction, heart failure, and cerebrovascular accident. Other complications seen in the postoperative period include fever, hypoglycemia, cortisol deficiency, urinary retention, etc. In the interest of safe patient care, such emergencies require precise diagnosis and treatment. Surgeons, anesthesiologists, and intensivists must be aware of the clinical manifestations and complications associated with a sudden increase or decrease in catecholamine levels and should work closely together to be able to provide appropriate management to minimize morbidity and mortality associated with PPGLs.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31277296	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277296	headache
Medicine	Observation of single spinal anesthesia by 25G needle puncture through a lateral crypt for hip surgery in elderly patients.	Single spinal anesthesia through the lateral crypt approach is safe and effective for lower-extremity fracture surgery in elderly patients. Thus, this approach is a feasible alternative when the conventional approach fails.	2019	eng	Randomized Controlled Trial	United States	31277184	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277184	headache
Journal of neurosurgery. Spine	False localizing signs of spinal CSF-venous fistulas in spontaneous intracranial hypotension: report of 2 cases.	A spinal CSF-venous fistula is one of three specific types of spinal CSF leak that can be seen in patients with spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH). They are best demonstrated on specialized imaging, such as digital subtraction myelography (DSM) or dynamic myelography, but often they are diagnosed on the basis of increased contrast density in the draining veins (the so-called hyperdense paraspinal vein sign) on early postmyelography CT scans. The authors report on 2 patients who underwent directed treatment (surgery in one patient and glue injection in the other) based on the hyperdense paraspinal vein sign, in whom the actual site of the fistula did not correspond to the level or laterality of the hyperdense paraspinal vein sign. The authors suggest consideration of DSM or dynamic myelography prior to undertaking treatment directed at these fistulas.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31277063	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277063	headache
World neurosurgery	Surgical outcome and treatment of thyrotropin (TSH)-secreting pituitary tumors in a tertiary referral center.	Our results confirm the clinical and hormonal heterogeneity caused by TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas. Surgery is considered the first choice of treatment for these tumors. We observed surgical cure rates similar to those reported in recent published series. SSTR2 and SSTR3 are highly expressed in TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas. Our results suggest that SSA treatment may be also helpful on the treatment of TSH-secreting pituitary adenomas.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31276853	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276853	headache
Psycho-oncology	When "a headache is not just a headache": A qualitative examination of parent and child experiences of pain after childhood cancer.	The cancer experience played an important role in shaping CCS' and their parents' experience and interpretation of pain in survivorship. This study provides novel data to inform the development and refinement of new and existing conceptual models of pain and symptom perception after cancer. The results also point to key areas for future investigation and clinical intervention to address the issue of pain in cancer survivorship.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31276614	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276614	headache
Indian journal of otolaryngology and head and neck surgery : official publication of the Association of Otolaryngologists of India	Dilemmas in Current Management of Complicated Chronic Otitis Media.	To evaluate the distribution of complications of chronic otitis media, dilemma of how soon to operate a seriously ill patient with CSOM and treatment outcomes. A retrospective study was done in a tertiary care centre. Clinical data from 2013 to 2015 was compiled, surgical management with outcome was analysed. A total of 425 patients with chronic otitis media were evaluated. Single/multiple complications were seen in 147 (34.5%) patients. Majority of the complications were seen in active squamosal type of chronic otitis media i.e. 137 (59.5%) cases out of the 147. Meningitis (3.3%) was the most common intracranial complication. Patients with intracranial complications were referred from other departments and did not primarily present to ENT, indicating a major fact that treatment was sort for the complication and not for chronic otitis media. Headache with or without ear discharge was the most common presenting complaint. Fever and pain were not prominent indicators of complications, posing a diagnostic dilemma as patients were already receiving antibiotics and analgesics before reaching tertiary care centre. The patients with severe intracranial complications were promptly taken up (within 3-5 days) for canal wall down mastoidectomy with intravenous broad spectrum antibiotic (vancomycin) and mannitol with high risk consent. However ill the patients were, especially children with very poor general conditions, there was dramatic recovery as soon as the mastoidectomy was done. There were no deaths due to the complications of chronic otitis media in our 3 years study period. Delay in resorting to surgical management of chronic otitis media was the main reason for patients going into complications. Timely mastoidectomy in patients with poor general condition with high risk of mortality, the surgery actually had a major role in reducing the morbidity and mortality. Lack of awareness that chronic otitis media is a condition that can lead to life threatening complications resulted in procrastination of surgery. Chronic otitis media requires speedy surgical management i.e. as soon as patient is fit to tolerate anaesthesia: Tympanoplasty and Canal wall up or down Mastoidectomy to prevent complications from arising or to resolve the present complication.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31275822	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275822	headache
Case reports in hepatology	A Rare Case of Herpes Simplex Virus-2 Hepatitis with Negative Serology.	Herpes simplex virus-2 (HSV2) hepatitis represents a rare but serious complication of HSV2 infection that can progress to acute liver failure (ALF). We describe a case of a pregnant teenager who presented with four days of fever, headache, malaise, nausea, and vomiting. She was initially misdiagnosed with sepsis of unclear source and treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics. Empiric acyclovir was started one week into her hospitalization despite negative serologies while awaiting HSV2 PCR leading to complete resolution of symptoms. Given its high mortality and nonspecific presentation, clinicians should consider HSV hepatitis in all patients with acute hepatitis especially in high-risk population.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31275672	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275672	headache
Frontiers in neurology	Effect of Nimodipine Treatment on the Clinical Course of Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31275233	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275233	headache
Frontiers in neurology	Impact of Medical Care on Symptomatic Drug Consumption and Quality of Life in Headache: A One-Year Population Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31275226	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275226	headache
Biologie aujourd'hui	[Brain network dysfunctions as substrates of primary headaches].	A large body of clinical and pre-clinical evidence has shown complex interactions between bottom-up and top-down mechanisms that are essential for the discrimination of noxious information and pain perception. These endogenous systems, mainly originating from the brainstem, hypothalamus and cerebral cortex, are strongly influenced by behavioral, cognitive and emotional factors that are relevant for the survival of the individual. Under pathological conditions, however, dysfunctional engagement of these descending pathways certainly contributes to the transformation from acute into chronic pain states. In disorders such as primary headaches, dysfunctions affecting brain regulation mechanisms contribute to the generation of episodic painful states in susceptible individuals, and to the evolution from acute to chronic migraine or cluster headache. Taken together, these studies support the concept that CNS mechanisms that process trigemino-vascular pain do not consist only of a bottom-up process, whereby a painful focus modifies the inputs to the next higher level. Indeed, several CNS regions mediate subtle forms of plasticity by adjusting neural maps downstream and, consequently, altering all the modulatory mechanisms as a result of sensory, autonomic, endocrine, cognitive and emotional influences. Disturbances in normal sensory processing within these loops could lead to maladaptive changes and impaired craniofacial functions at the origin of primary headaches.	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31274102	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274102	headache
Biologie aujourd'hui	[Migraine epidemiological, ﻿clinical and therapeutic data].	Burden of disease study ranks headache disorders as the second leading cause of years lived with disability worldwide. Migraine has an estimated prevalence of 10 to 14% and is therefore the most common neurological pathology. It concerns young populations, with a female/male ratio of 3/1, and its impact in economic terms is mainly related to indirect costs. Migraine can be episodic or chronic depending on the frequency of headache days (≥ 15 days per month). The diagnosis of migraine is made according to international criteria, which are easy to use, with essential questions to be asked to patients in a logical order and structure. The migraine is explained by an activation of the so-called trigeminocervical system, with release of neuromediators participating in neurogenic inflammation and activation of second-order neurons. Migraine with aura is manifested by neurological symptoms, lasting less than 60 minutes, explained by the phenomenon of cortical spreading depression. Visual symptoms are the most commonly described aura event of migraine, other auras include sensory and speech disturbance. Cortical spreading depression is a slowly propagating wave of near-complete depolarization of neurons and glial cells spreading over the cortex at a speed of ∼3-5 mm/min. First-line acute treatment for migraine consists of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), triptans and antiemetics. Patients with frequent or chronic headaches warrant prophylactic therapy. Various classes of preventives can be used (β-blockers, tricyclics, antiepileptics), with the choice of therapy tailored to the patient's risk factors and symptoms. In practice, treatment has two axes: NSAID or triptans for crisis treatment and for background treatment prescribed case by case, the first-intention molecules according to the French recommendations are beta-blockers, then, in case of failure, topiramate, oxetorone or amitriptyline.	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31274101	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274101	headache
The Journal of international medical research	Pseudotumor cerebri induced by topical application of steroid: a case report.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31274035	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274035	headache
Practical neurology	Medication-overuse headache.	Medication-overuse headache is defined as headache occurring on more than 15 days in a month in people with pre-existing primary headache, and developing as a consequence of regular overuse of acute headache treatments. Medication-overuse headache is common in general neurology clinics and can be difficult to manage. Most patients have a background of migraine, which has slowly transformed over months and years from the episodic to chronic form; with this comes an increased use of acute migraine treatment. This paper identifies who is at risk of developing medication-overuse headache, and reviews preventive measures and current treatment strategies.	2019	eng	Review	England	31273078	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273078	headache
AJNR. American journal of neuroradiology	CT-Guided Block and Radiofrequency Ablation of the C2 Dorsal Root Ganglion for Cervicogenic Headache.	The purpose of this report is to describe the technical aspects of CT-guided C2 dorsal root ganglion diagnostic block and radiofrequency ablation for refractory cervicogenic headache. CT guidance allows precise and safe positioning of a needle adjacent to the C2 dorsal root ganglion. At-risk neural and vascular structures can be avoided with CT, and it can provide a thorough understanding of upper cervical neuroanatomy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31272962	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272962	headache
Stroke	Reversible Cerebral Vasoconstriction Syndrome.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31272323	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272323	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Observational, open-label, non-randomized study on the efficacy of onabotulinumtoxinA in the treatment of nummular headache: The pre-numabot study.	It was found that after injecting onabotulinumtoxinA, the number of headache days per month was reduced in nummular headache patients. The number of intense headache days per month and acute treatment days were also lowered. No serious adverse events occurred during treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31272194	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272194	headache
Diagnosis (Berlin, Germany)	Assessing diagnostic error in cerebral venous thrombosis via detailed chart review.	Background Diagnostic error in cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) has been understudied despite the harm associated with misdiagnosis of other cerebrovascular diseases as well as the known challenges of evaluating non-specific neurological symptoms in clinical practice. Methods We conducted a retrospective cohort study of CVT patients hospitalized at a single center. Two independent reviewers used a medical record review tool, the Safer Dx Instrument, to identify diagnostic errors. Demographic and clinical factors were abstracted. We compared subjects with and without a diagnostic error using the t-test for continuous variables and the chi-square (χ2) test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables; an alpha of 0.05 was the cutoff for significance. Results A total of 72 CVT patients initially met study inclusion criteria; 19 were excluded due to incomplete medical records. Of the 53 patients included in the final analysis, the mean age was 48 years and 32 (60.4%) were women. Diagnostic error occurred in 11 cases [20.8%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 11.8-33.6%]. Subjects with diagnostic errors were younger (42 vs. 49 years, p = 0.13), more often women (81.8% vs. 54.8%, p = 0.17), and were significantly more likely to have a past medical history of a headache disorder prior to the index CVT visit (7.1% vs. 36.4%, p = 0.03). Conclusions Nearly one in five patients with complete medical records experienced a diagnostic error. Prior history of headache was the only evaluated clinical factor that was more common among those with an error in diagnosis. Future work on distinguishing primary from secondary headaches to improve diagnostic accuracy in acute neurological disease is warranted.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31271550	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31271550	headache
Physiotherapy theory and practice	Craniopharyngioma in a young woman with symptoms presenting as mechanical neck pain associated with cervicogenic headache: a case report.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31271335	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31271335	headache
Infection & chemotherapy	Epidemiological Investigation of the Outbreak of Acute Respiratory Infection caused by Adenovirus Type B55 in a Physical Education School in 2017.	The outbreak is inferred to be occurred via propagated transmission among the students in the same athletic department, while the students with symptoms of respiratory infection continued performing school activities without any restrictions. Infection control measures such as early detection of symptoms of respiratory infection and restriction of group activity are necessary to prevent respiratory infection outbreak in the communal living setting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31270991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270991	headache
Neurology	Two randomized migraine studies of galcanezumab: Effects on patient functioning and disability.	This study provides Class II evidence that for patients with migraine, galcanezumab (120 mg or 240 mg) given once monthly improved functioning and reduced disability.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31270220	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270220	headache
Nan fang yi ke da xue xue bao = Journal of Southern Medical University	[Two-stage closed sinus lift for severe bone deficiency in the posterior maxilla imrpoves long-term clinical outcomes].	Compared with lateral wall lifting, two-stage close lifting of the maxillary sinus floor is associated with less trauma and less discomfort, and effectively solves the problem of severe alveolar bone height deficiency in the maxillary posterior region to achieve favorable long-term clinical outcomes.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31270054	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270054	headache
International journal of environmental research and public health	The Current Health and Wellbeing of the Survivors of the Rana Plaza Building Collapse in Bangladesh: A Qualitative Study.	This study aims to identify the ongoing physical and psychological health vulnerabilities of the readymade garment (RMG) factory workers involved in the Rana Plaza building collapse in 2013, along with their experiences within the current socioeconomic and political contexts of Bangladesh. Seventeen Rana Plaza survivors participated in unstructured, face-to-face, in-depth interviews. Interviews were thematically analyzed using Haddon's matrix to examine pre-event, event, and post-event injury experiences. The collapse of the Rana Plaza building resulted in significant physical and emotional trauma for those who survived the event. The majority of the participants were forced to attend work on the day of the collapse. Participants reported physical health complaints related to bone injuries/fractures and amputation, severe headache, kidney problems, and functional difficulties. In addition to the reported physical health issues, the participants revealed psychological health issues including trauma, depression and suicidal ideation, sleep disorders, anxiety, and sudden anger. Participants described barriers to their potential for re-employment in the RMG sector and outlined their limited access to free healthcare for follow-up treatment. Those who survived the collapse of the Rana Plaza building continue to experience significant adverse physical and emotional outcomes related to the disaster. Yet, they have little recourse to ensure the availability of adequate health care and rehabilitation. Given the international reliance on the Bangladeshi RMG industry, continued pressure to ensure care is provided for these survivors, and to reduce the risk of future disasters, is necessary.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31269746	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269746	headache
Neuroendocrinology	Intracranial germinoma masquerading as secondary granulomatous hypophysitis: A case report and review of literature.	Germinomas are highly immunogenic tumors eliciting a strong peri-tumoral immune response that can spillover into the surrounding healthy tissues. This phenomenon can also occur in intracranial germinomas, manifesting as secondary hypophysitis. Herein, we report a case of 12-year-old-girl presenting with polyuria and polydispsia. She had central diabetes insipidus (CDI) and panhypopituitarism. Imaging revealed a sellar-suprasellar mass with infundibular stalk thickening. Transphenoidal biopsy revealed epitheloid granulomas with immunostaining negative for germinomatous cells. Other causes of hypophysitis were ruled out. Accordingly, she was diagnosed as primary granulomatous hypophysitis and treated with high-dose corticosteroids. Three years later she again presented with headache, vomiting and diminution of vision. Imaging showed a heterogeneous, solid-cystic peripheral rim-enhancing lesion at the same location with involvement of hypothalamus, ependyma and pineal gland. Cerebrospinal fluid β-hCG was markedly elevated, confirming the diagnosis of an intracranial germ cell tumor. She was started on chemotherapy, however, she succumbed to febrile neutropenia. We performed a literature search and found 18 anecdotal cases of secondary hypophysitis associated with intracranial germinomas. There was a slight male preponderance (male:female 5:4). Two-third of the cases were below 18 years of age. Polyuria was the most common presenting manifestation (83%). CDI and panhypopituitarism were seen in 89% and 78% cases, respectively. Imaging evidence of pituitary stalk thickening was seen in 12 cases (67%) while pituitary enlargement and/or sellar mass was reported in 11 cases (61%). Pineal involvement was extremely rare, being reported in only 1 case, implying the predilection of suprasellar (rather than pineal) germinomas in causing secondary hypophysitis. Histologically, 82% had lymphocytic hypophysistis while 18% had granulomatous hypophysitis. Initially, the diagnosis of germinoma was missed in 60% of the cases who were wrongly treated with corticosteroids. To conclude, physicians should make it a dictum that all children and adolescents presenting with CDI and pituitary stalk thickening should be rigorously screened for an underlying intracranial germinoma before labelling them as primary hypophysitis.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31269501	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269501	headache
Acta neurologica Scandinavica	Factors associated with headache in intravenous immunoglobulin treatment for neurological diseases.	IVIg-associated headache is not associated with an increased blood pressure after infusion, but with a reduced heart rate, a slower infusion rate, female sex and seems to be influenced by baseline systolic blood pressure and age. A reaction to immunoglobulin aggregates, stabilizers or vasoactive mediators are possible explanations. The absence of an association with body temperature does not suggest a systemic immune response as a cause for headache. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31269227	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269227	headache
Anaesthesiology intensive therapy	Impact of spinal needle design and approach to postdural puncture headache and spinal anesthesia failure in obstetrics.	Sprotte but not Atraucan needle design correlates with lower incidence of postdural puncture headache compared to Quincke design. Sprotte needles are not associated with a higher spinal anesthesia failure compared to Quincke needles. The incidence of postdural puncture headache by the paramedian approach is not significantly reduced whereas the spinal anesthesia failure rate is increased in comparison to the midline approach.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	31268266	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268266	headache
Ugeskrift for laeger	[Folate deficiency as a differential diagnosis to severe pre-eclampsia].	In this case report, a 26-year-old pregnant woman presented with headache, visual disturbances, mega-loblastic anaemia, thrombocytopenia and proteinuria in her third trimester. These symptoms were initially misinterpreted as HELLP-syndrome, but due to normal blood pressure and liver function the patient was diagnosed with severe folate deficiency despite her daily supplements of folate to avoid neural tube defects and deficiency. The reason was onset of coeliac disease during pregnancy. Careful examination may help discriminate HELLP-syndrome from folate deficiency and thus avoid preterm delivery.	2019	dan	Journal Article	Denmark	31267942	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31267942	headache
Expert review of neurotherapeutics	Shedding light on migraine with aura: the clarifying role of advanced neuroimaging investigations.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31267785	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31267785	headache
Child's nervous system : ChNS : official journal of the International Society for Pediatric Neurosurgery	Intracranial tumors in children: a 10-year review from a single tertiary health-care center.	This is the only study from Pakistan showing demographics of the childhood brain tumors. Significant improvement needs to be made for timely diagnosis, early referrals, and collaborated team efforts with multidisciplinary tumor board to improve outcome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31267185	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31267185	headache
The journal of headache and pain	Emerging evidence of occipital nerve compression in unremitting head and neck pain.	Unremitting head and neck pain (UHNP) is a commonly encountered phenomenon in Headache Medicine and may be seen in the setting of many well-defined headache types. The prevalence of UHNP is not clear, and establishing the presence of UHNP may require careful questioning at repeated patient visits. The cause of UHNP in some patients may be compression of the lesser and greater occipital nerves by the posterior cervical muscles and their fascial attachments at the occipital ridge with subsequent local perineural inflammation. The resulting pain is typically in the sub-occipital and occipital location, and, via anatomic connections between extracranial and intracranial nerves, may radiate frontally to trigeminal-innervated areas of the head. Migraine-like features of photophobia and nausea may occur with frontal radiation. Occipital allodynia is common, as is spasm of the cervical muscles. Patients with UHNP may comprise a subgroup of Chronic Migraine, as well as of Chronic Tension-Type Headache, New Daily Persistent Headache and Cervicogenic Headache. Centrally acting membrane-stabilizing agents, which are often ineffective for CM, are similarly generally ineffective for UHNP. Extracranially-directed treatments such as occipital nerve blocks, cervical trigger point injections, botulinum toxin and monoclonal antibodies directed at calcitonin gene related peptide, which act primarily in the periphery, may provide more substantial relief for UHNP; additionally, decompression of the occipital nerves from muscular and fascial compression is effective for some patients, and may result in enduring pain relief. Further study is needed to determine the prevalence of UHNP, and to understand the role of occipital nerve compression in UHNP and of occipital nerve decompression surgery in chronic head and neck pain.	2019	eng	Review	England	31266456	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266456	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Sustained responses to lasmiditan: Results from post-hoc analyses of two Phase 3 randomized clinical trials for acute treatment of migraine.	SAMURAI: NCT02439320; SPARTAN: NCT02605174.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31266353	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266353	headache
Radiology	Altered Vascular Permeability in Migraine-associated Brain Regions: Evaluation with Dynamic Contrast-enhanced MRI.	Background Recent studies showed the possible association between inflammation-induced blood-brain barrier (BBB) structural changes followed by greater permeability of the BBB and chronic pain. Thus, measurement of BBB breakdown would be a valuable aid in the diagnosis in migraine. Dynamic contrast material-enhanced (DCE) MRI can determine perfusion and permeability properties related to the BBB. Purpose To evaluate the relationship between permeability of the BBB in migraine-associated brain regions by using DCE MRI. Materials and Methods In this prospective study, from September 2016 to December 2017, 56 study participants underwent DCE MRI after gadobutrol administration and were classified into migraine (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31264949	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264949	headache
British journal of neurosurgery	Pineal cyst surveillance in adults - a review of 10 years' experience.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31264489	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264489	headache
Orvosi hetilap	[Results after graded recession of inferior oblique muscle in strabismus sursoadductorius].	Absztrakt: 	2019	hun	Journal Article	Hungary	31264468	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264468	headache
The Cochrane database of systematic reviews	Psychological therapies for the prevention of migraine in adults.	This review identified 21 studies of psychological interventions for the management of migraine. We did not find evidence that psychological interventions affected migraine frequency, a result based on four studies of primarily brief treatments. Those who received psychological interventions were twice as likely to be classified as responders in the short term, but this was based on very low-quality evidence and there was no evidence of an effect of psychological intervention compared to control at follow-up. There was no evidence of an effect of psychological interventions on medication usage, mood, migraine-related disability or quality of life. There was no evidence of an effect of psychological interventions on migraine frequency in the short-term or long-term. In terms of adverse events, we were unable to draw conclusions as there was insufficient evidence. High and unclear risk of bias in study design and reporting, small numbers of participants, performance and detection bias meant that we rated all evidence as very low quality. Therefore, we conclude that there is an absence of high-quality evidence to determine whether psychological interventions are effective in managing migraine in adults and we are uncertain whether there is any difference between psychological therapies and controls.	2019	eng	Review	England	31264211	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264211	headache
Anaesthesia	Determinants of women's dissatisfaction with anaesthesia care in labour and delivery.	Patient-centred care and factors associated with patient satisfaction with anaesthesia have been widely studied. However, the most important considerations in the setting of obstetric anaesthesia are uncertain. Identification of, and addressing, factors that contribute to patient dissatisfaction may improve quality of care. We sought to identify factors associated with < 100% satisfaction with obstetric anaesthesia care. At total of 4297 women treated by anaesthetists provided satisfaction data 24 h after vaginal and 48 h after caesarean delivery. As 78% of women were 100% satisfied, we studied factors associated with the dichotomous variable, 100% satisfied vs. < 100% satisfied. We evaluated patient characteristics and peripartum factors using multivariable sequential logistic regression. The following factors were strongly associated with maternal dissatisfaction after vaginal delivery: pain intensity during the first stage of labour; pain intensity during the second stage of labour; postpartum pain intensity; delay > 15 min in providing epidural analgesia and postpartum headache (all p < 0.0001). Pruritus (p = 0.005) also contributed to dissatisfaction after vaginal delivery, whereas non-Hispanic ethnicity was negatively associated with dissatisfaction (p = 0.01). After caesarean delivery, the intensity of postpartum pain (p < 0.0001), headache (p = 0.001) and pruritus (p = 0.001) were linked to dissatisfaction. Hispanic ethnicity also had a negative relationship with dissatisfaction after caesarean delivery (p = 0.005). Thus, inadequate or delayed analgesia and treatment-related side-effects are associated with maternal dissatisfaction with obstetric anaesthesia care. Development of protocols to facilitate identification of ineffective analgesia and provide an appropriate balance between efficacy and side-effects, are important goals to optimise maternal satisfaction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31264207	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264207	headache
Headache	Case Report: Shortest Course of Pediatric Paroxysmal Hemicrania.	Paroxysmal hemicrania (PH) is a rare primary headache disorder, especially among children. We describe herein a case with the shortest course of pediatric PH among previously reported cases, and the first case report of Japanese pediatric PH. An 11-year-old boy was referred to our clinic by his primary care physician for a headache evaluation. He had been complaining of severe, sharp, pulsating headache for 5 days. Attacks were restricted to the left side with a duration ranging from 2 to 20 minutes, 20-30 times a day. Attacks were associated with left autonomic symptoms (conjunctival injection, lacrimation, nasal congestion, eyelid edema, and ptosis). Two days after we prescribed indomethacin at 0.9 mg/kg/day, the patient was headache free. He stopped taking indomethacin 14 days after consultation because of drug eruptions. As of the time of writing, more than 1 year later, he has experienced no recurrence of headache. This case indicates the importance of improving awareness among general doctors regarding PH in children, and of conducting further investigations about low-dose, short-term indomethacin treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31264201	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264201	headache
Medical hypothesis, discovery & innovation ophthalmology journal	The Use of Topiramate for Weight Loss Causing Acute Glaucoma: A Case Report and Literature Review.	Topiramate is a sulfa-containing drug which is able to disrupt the ocular blood barrier. Recently it has gained more popularity, being used in many clinical conditions. Nowadays, the cases of glaucoma induced by topiramate have increased due to the use of this drug to induce weight loss. We here described a 29-year-old female presented with a one-day history of blurred vision in both eyes and headache. She was using a weight loss formula containing topiramate 100 milligrams. Ophthalmologic exam revealed an important myopic shift of -7.00 spherical diopters at presentation with intraocular pressure (IOP) of 32 mmHg and a shallow anterior chamber in both eyes. After discontinuous of topiramate and use of cycloplegic eyedrops, myopic shift improved and IOP controlled after two days. The anterior chamber was significantly deeper in both eyes after two weeks. It is theorized that topiramate can provoke a ciliochoroidal effusion and, therefore, can cause an anterior displacement of lens-iris diaphragm with a secondary angular closure. The treatment must include cycloplegic and discontinuation of the drug. Sulfa-containing drugs lead to an indirect mechanism of angle closure, frequently bilateral and, as mentioned above, with a different treatment approach. If unrecognized and untreated, it can provoke high morbidity with possibility of bilateral permanent visual loss.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31263722	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31263722	headache
Frontiers in neurology	Comparison of Standard and Intensified Regimens for HIV-Negative Adults With Tuberculous Meningitis in West China: A Retrospective Observational Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31263450	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31263450	headache
Explore (New York, N.Y.)	Korean Medicine Treatments Including Blood Stasis-Removing Therapy and Auriculotherapy for Persistent Headache After Traumatic Brain Injury: A Case Report.	Headache after traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a common symptom which includes moderate-to-severe pain more than 5 years after the injury and severely limits the quality of life. Some guidelines have indicated that there are several cases where headaches do not respond adequately to conventional therapies. Therefore, effective alternative approaches are needed. In this case report, we present a 74-year-old woman, who had persistent headache attributed to traumatic injury to the head and subjective cognitive impairment. By using the Korean Medical (KM) treatment blood stasis-removing therapy using Dangguixu-san and auriculotherapy, her headache improved markedly. Improvements in the cognitive function and hemorrhage were also observed. This case report suggests that KM treatments using Dangguixu-san and auriculotherapy may be an alternative therapeutic approach for headache after TBI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31262688	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31262688	headache
Journal of fungi (Basel, Switzerland)	Central Nervous System Infections Due to Coccidioidomycosis.	Coccidioidomycosis is a common infection in the western and southwestern United States as well as parts of Mexico and Central and South America and is due to the soil-dwelling fungi 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31261704	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31261704	headache
The Journal of craniofacial surgery	Cerebrospinal Fluid Leak Following Nasal Packing for Epistaxis.	Anterior epistaxis is commonly treated with Merocel nasal packing insertion. A 63-year-old male patient showed a cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea and pneumocephalus immediately after insertion of a Merocel tampon used for spontaneous right anterior epistaxis. He later developed fever and headache. This clinical report is to highlight how the nasal merocel should be positioned by specialized personnel and to describe how to manage this type of complication.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31261322	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31261322	headache
European journal of obstetrics, gynecology, and reproductive biology	Study on the prevalence and factors associated to vulvodynia in Spain.	The prevalence of vulvodynia in Spain is similar to that found in other countries. Many factors are involved in its development and persistence, particularly the presence of other pain syndromes and recurrent infections that could trigger complex inflammatory reactions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31260857	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31260857	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Anxiety sensitivity and intentional avoidance of physical activity in women with probable migraine.	Preliminary findings indicate that anxiety sensitivity may contribute to avoidance of moderate and vigorous physical activity and fear-based cognitions about exercise.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31260336	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31260336	headache
Headache	A Case of Ictal Epileptic Headache in Non Convulsive Status Epilepticus: Not Always, Not Only, a Matter of Pain.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31260097	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31260097	headache
Journal of pediatric hematology/oncology	Pediatric Stroke: A Single-Center Experience.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical characteristics, risk factors, treatment, and outcomes of pediatric stroke cases. A total of 118 patients diagnosed with arterial ischemic stroke (AIS), hemorrhagic stroke, and sinovenous thrombosis (SVT) between January 2000 and December 2011 were included. Neonatal cases were excluded. Demographic and clinical findings were retrospectively examined from medical records. We identified 118 patients with stroke. The age of the patients ranged from 1 to 215 months (17.92 y), with a mean age of 5.19±5.25 years. AIS accounted for the majority of cases (n=69, 58.5%), and the major etiology was cardiac disease (17%). Hemorrhagic stroke accounted for 19.5% (n=23) of the cases, and late hemorrhagic disease of the newborn was the major etiology (43%, n=10). SVT accounted for 22% (n=26) of the cases, and the major etiology was otitis media-mastoiditis (27%, n=7). Hemiplegia and headache were the most frequent symptoms for AIS and SVT, respectively. Stroke is rare in children compared with adults; however, it is detected more frequently with better imaging techniques and increased awareness. We found that children with AIS presented more commonly with hemiplegia and children with SVT with headache and strabismus. We did not find an association between thrombophilia and stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31259821	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259821	headache
AIDS (London, England)	Cluster headache-like symptoms during treatment with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31259768	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259768	headache
Journal of child neurology	Asymptomatic Versus Symptomatic Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension in Children.	Asymptomatic idiopathic intracranial hypertension is common among pediatric patients with papilledema and is an important disease entity that requires special clinical management. It may exist as a milder version of idiopathic intracranial hypertension that occurs in younger children, or as a precursor state that later evolves into symptomatic disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31259642	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259642	headache
High altitude medicine & biology	Day of Ascent Dosing of Acetazolamide for Prevention of Acute Mountain Sickness.	Lipman, Grant S., Carrie Jurkiewicz, Christopher Winstead-Derlega, Andrew Navlyt, Patrick Burns, Anne Walker, Caleb Phillips, Aaron Reilly, Andre Burnier, Joseph Romero, Keiran Warner, and Peter Hackett. Day of ascent dosing of acetazolamide for prevention of acute mountain sickness. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31259608	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259608	headache
American family physician	Migraine Headache, Hypertension in Children, CVD Risk, Acupuncture, Incarcerated Patients.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31259499	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259499	headache
Child neurology open	Two Cases of Guillain-Barré Syndrome Variants Presenting With Dysautonomia.	We describe 2 pediatric cases presenting with posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome secondary to autonomic dysfunction preceding the onset of motor symptoms in Guillain-Barré syndrome variants. Patient 1 presented acutely with encephalopathy, cerebellar signs, hypertension, lower limb weakness, and respiratory decompensation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain showed occipital lesions consistent with posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome. Nerve conduction studies were consistent with Miller-Fisher syndrome. After intravenous immunoglobulin and plasmapheresis, he improved clinically with radiological resolution. Patient 2 presented with headache, leg pain, seizures, and significant hypertension. Brain MRI was normal but spine MRI revealed enhancement of the cauda equina ventral nerve roots. She was areflexic with lower limb weakness a few days after intensive care unit admission and made a significant improvement after treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin. In children presenting with posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome in the absent of other causes of primary hypertension, Guillain-Barré syndrome variants are an important differential etiology, presenting with autonomic dysfunction, even before signs of motor weakness become evident.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31259196	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259196	headache
Journal of health & pollution	Public Health Burden of E-waste in Africa.	The authors declare no competing financial interests.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31259086	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259086	headache
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	Eltrombopag enables initiation and completion of pegylated interferon/ribavirin therapy in Japanese HCV-infected patients with chronic liver disease and thrombocytopenia.	To investigate the efficacy of eltrombopag for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic hepatitis C, a phase II, single-arm, open-label study with a 9-week pre-antiviral phase was conducted, followed by a 48-week antiviral phase and a 24-week follow-up phase. The proportion of patients who achieved a platelet count threshold, the proportion of patients who maintained a platelet count >50,000/µl, sustained virological response (SVR) rates and safety parameters were evaluated. Of the 45 enrolled patients (median age, 59 years; median platelet count, 63,000/µl; 98% with Child-Pugh class A), 43 (96%) achieved the platelet count threshold during the pre-antiviral phase. A total of 13 patients (29%) experienced ≥1 adverse event (AE), of which headache and vomiting were the most common, and 41 patients (mostly receiving eltrombopag 12.5 mg or 25 mg) entered the antiviral phase, of which 36 (88%) maintained the platelet count threshold; no patient platelet count decreased below 25,000/µl. Nine patients (22%) achieved an SVR at the 24-week follow-up. Grade ≥3 AEs occurred in 25 patients (61%). A total of 8 serious AEs occurred in five patients (12%). No mortality, thromboembolic events (TEEs), or cataract progression were reported. Eltrombopag increased the platelet count in chronic hepatitis C virus-infected patients with cirrhosis and thrombocytopenia and enabled them to initiate and complete interferon-based antiviral therapy (NCT01636778; first submitted: July 05, 2012).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31258695	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258695	headache
Pakistan journal of medical sciences	Ametropia in children with headache.	A significant proportion of children with ametropia have initial symptoms of headache. Any child with un-explained headache must undergo ophthalmic evaluation to diagnose refractive error, if any.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Pakistan	31258579	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258579	headache
Frontiers in neurology	Structural and Functional Brain Alterations in Post-traumatic Headache Attributed to Mild Traumatic Brain Injury: A Narrative Review.	None	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31258507	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258507	headache
Ci ji yi xue za zhi = Tzu-chi medical journal	Comparison of intramuscular methylergometrine, rectal misoprostol, and low-dose intravenous oxytocin in active management of the third stage of labor.	Although methylergometrine was found to have higher incidence of side effects such as nausea, vomiting, headache, and raised blood pressure, it was found to be the most effective drug for minimizing blood loss in the third stage of labor. In remote places where healthcare facilities are limited and drugs cannot be administered by parenteral route, rectal misoprostol remains an alternative.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China (Republic : 1949- )	31258291	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258291	headache
The Canadian journal of neurological sciences. Le journal canadien des sciences neurologiques	Genetic Analysis of a Large Family with Migraine, Vertigo, and Motion Sickness.	Our analysis supports our hypothesis that the migraine-associated vertigo and motion sickness may involve distinct susceptibility genes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31258098	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258098	headache
Headache	Sodium Divalproate in Low Alternating Daily Doses for Migraine Prevention: A Retrospective Study.	Despite the retrospective open design, which cannot allow definitive conclusions, SD in low alternating daily doses seems to be effective as with higher doses, but still induce modest weight gain. Controlled studies are necessary to confirm these observations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31257584	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31257584	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	LASH syndrome: New cases with a broadening clinical phenotype.	LASH syndrome may be rare, but more reported cases are entering the headache literature. The temporal profile of onset and offset of cranial autonomic symptoms is key to making the diagnosis. Primary and secondary LASH may present differently based on gender predominance, the presence of migrainous associated features, and attack frequency. Secondary LASH appears to be indomethacin responsive, suggesting that medication effectiveness should not obviate the need to do testing for secondary etiologies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31256637	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31256637	headache
Neurological sciences : official journal of the Italian Neurological Society and of the Italian Society of Clinical Neurophysiology	Do paroxysmal hemicrania and hemicrania continua represent different headaches? A retrospective study.	Paroxysmal hemicrania and hemicrania continua were similar on majority of pain characteristics and autonomic features. The paroxysmal hemicrania and hemicrania continua are not exclusive headaches and can transform into each other.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31256266	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31256266	headache
NeuroRehabilitation	Behavioral treatment for post-traumatic headache after mild traumatic brain injury: Rationale and case series.	Future directions for behavioral management of headache triggers as a potential treatment for chronic post-traumatic headaches after mTBI are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31256091	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31256091	headache
Journal of neonatal-perinatal medicine	The association between low birth weight and mothers diseases in Iran: A case-control study.	In this study, we observed that place of residence, BMI before pregnancy, mother's occupation and gestational diabetes were significant predictors of LBW. It is necessary to improve women's awareness about prenatal health care before pregnancy to avoid LBW.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31256076	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31256076	headache
Neuropsychopharmacology : official publication of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology	Results from a long-term open-label extension study of adjunctive buprenorphine/samidorphan combination in patients with major depressive disorder.	Buprenorphine/samidorphan (BUP/SAM; ALKS 5461) is an investigational opioid system modulator for the adjunctive treatment of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD), who did not respond adequately to prior antidepressant therapy (ADT). FORWARD-2, an open-label extension study, assessed long-term safety and tolerability of adjunctive BUP/SAM treatment in these patients. Patients from four short-term trials and de novo patients were enrolled; all had confirmed MDD and a current major depressive episode lasting 2-24 months. Patients were treated with an established ADT for ≥8 weeks before receiving sublingual, adjunctive BUP/SAM 2 mg/2 mg for up to 52 weeks. Safety (primary objective) was assessed via adverse events (AEs), the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale, and the Clinical Opiate Withdrawal Scale (COWS). Exploratory evaluation of efficacy was done using the Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS). Of 1485 patients, 50% completed the study and 11% discontinued due to AEs. AEs of nausea, headache, constipation, dizziness, and somnolence, each occurred in ≥10% of patients. There was no evidence of increased suicidal ideation or behavior. Euphoria-related AEs were uncommon (1.2%). Following abrupt BUP/SAM discontinuation, "drug withdrawal" AEs were infrequent (0.4%), and the incidence of COWS categorical worsening after abrupt drug discontinuation was low (6.5%). Improvements in mean MADRS scores were maintained until study end, suggesting durability of antidepressant effect in patients continuing treatment. BUP/SAM was generally well tolerated, with a low risk of abuse and an AE profile consistent with those seen in placebo-controlled studies. Withdrawal reports were uncommon and of limited clinical impact.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31254971	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31254971	headache
Journal of neuroimmunology	Intrathecal rituximab in immunoglobulin G4-hypertrophic pachymeningitis.	We describe the case of a 69-year-old man who presented with symptoms of headache and severe vision loss due to G4 immunoglobulin (IgG4) hypertrophic pachymeningitis (HP). The patient was initially responsive to corticotherapy, but vision loss progressed when steroid therapy was first tapered. No improvement was noticed with intravenous rituximab. The patient showed clinical and radiological improvement after intrathecal rituximab, which can be an efficacious alternative treatment option.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31254930	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31254930	headache
Neurological sciences : official journal of the Italian Neurological Society and of the Italian Society of Clinical Neurophysiology	State and trait anger and its expression in cluster headache compared with migraine: a cross-sectional study.	Migraine and CH patients differ in state anger, indicating that CH patients experienced higher intensity of anger during the time of testing. These data add new information about emotional regulation in headache patients and could support the hypothesis of different emotional and behavioral responses to pain in migraine and CH patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31254182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31254182	headache
Neurological sciences : official journal of the Italian Neurological Society and of the Italian Society of Clinical Neurophysiology	The association between dietary tryptophan intake and migraine.	Migraineurs have been identified to have chronically decreased serotonin levels while its concentrations markedly increase during ictal periods. Regarding the importance of adequate tryptophan intake in regulating serotonin homeostasis and subsequent effect on migraine attacks, we designed the current study. The migraine group (n = 514, diagnosed according to the ICHDIII criteria) was recruited from a tertiary headache clinic. The controls consisted of 582 sex-matched healthy volunteers who were randomly selected from general population. After collecting demographic and anthropometric data, a validated 168-item semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) was used for dietary intake assessments. Multiple regression models were applied to explore the relationship between migraine and tryptophan intake. The mean (SD) of the age of participants in the controls and migraine group was 44.85 (13.84) and 36.20 (9.78) years, respectively. The multiple regression models were adjusted for age (year), sex, body mass index (BMI) (kg/m	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31254181	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31254181	headache
The journal of headache and pain	Galcanezumab in episodic migraine: subgroup analyses of efficacy by high versus low frequency of migraine headaches in phase 3 studies (EVOLVE-1 & EVOLVE-2).	NCT02614183 , NCT02614196 .	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31253091	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31253091	headache
Nutrients	Prevalence and Predictors of Dietary and Nutritional Supplement Use in the Australian Army: A Cross-Sectional Survey.	Dietary supplements (DSs) and nutritional supplements (NSs) can enhance performance, recovery or training adaptations, however, some substances, dosages, and usage protocols are unsafe. Knowledge of the type and extent of use within populations enables strategies to be formulated to promote safe and effective use (where needed) and to avoid adverse side effects. The purpose of this study was to understand DS and NS use by active-duty Australian soldiers. Surveys were distributed by e-mail and hard copy to eligible participants (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31252600	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31252600	headache
Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift (1946)	[Acute Disorders of Consciousness and Coma - Systematics, Differential Diagnosis and Management].	Cerebral diseases such as epileptic seizures, cerebral hemorrhages or meningoencephalitis are the primary cause of approximately 50 % of non-traumatic acute disorders of consciousness. For the differential diagnosis, history and other symptoms are important such as hemiplegia, signs of brain stem dysfunction, meningism or headache. Metabolic, endocrinologic, toxicologic or electrolytic causes of coma usually can be diagnosed by laboratory examinations. Anamnestic informations, body inspection, clinical neurological examination as well as laboratory and imaging findings have to be added and categorized by a multilevel composition to establish a conclusive diagnosis. Simultaneously therapeutic measures for suspected primary cerebral diseases must be initiated, for example a rapid antibiotic treatment in case of a possible bacterial meningitis. A fast and structured diagnostic approach is crucial for ensuring a good prognosis and helps to miss relevant diagnostic steps. Potential diagnostic and therapeutic pitfalls must be kept in mind.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31252440	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31252440	headache
Journal of neurosurgery	Sealing of superior semicircular canal dehiscence is associated with improved balance outcomes postoperatively versus plugging of the canal in middle fossa craniotomy repairs: a case series.	The authors found that superior semicircular canal dehiscence patients who undergo sealing without plugging have improved balance outcomes but show more tinnitus postoperatively than patients who undergo plugging.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31252395	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31252395	headache
The International journal of clinical and experimental hypnosis	Effect of an Online Hypnosis Intervention in Reducing Migraine Symptoms: A Randomized Controlled Trial.	This study examined the development and effect of an online hypnosis program for the treatment of migraines. Forty-three participants were randomly assigned to a wait-list control or a treatment group. The treatment group received hypnosis mp3s developed for the study. Pain catastrophizing (PCS), headache disability (HDI), migraine frequency, duration, severity, and medication usage were measured. There was a 48% reduction in mean HDI score in the treatment group and 2% reduction in the control group. There was a 60% reduction in mean PCS score in the treatment group. There were no significant between-group differences in the proportion of subjects experiencing decreased frequency or severity of migraines. There was a significant between-group difference in the change in migraine duration. This study demonstrated that a hypnosis intervention delivered online was effective in reducing headache symptoms in migraine sufferers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31251706	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31251706	headache
World neurosurgery: X	A Case of Cisternal Pilocytic Astrocytoma Diagnosed with the Balanced Steady-State Free Precession Sequence for Magnetic Resonance Imaging: A Rare Cause of Subarachnoid Hemorrhage.	Despite being extremely rare, a small cisternal lesion should be considered as a cause of SAH of unknown etiology. The bSSFP sequence may be useful for detecting cisternal lesions that may be missed on the routine MRI sequences.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31251309	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31251309	headache
Drugs of today (Barcelona, Spain : 1998)	Baloxavir marboxil: a novel cap-dependent endonuclease (CEN) inhibitor for the treatment of acute uncomplicated influenza.	Baloxavir marboxil is a newly approved antiviral agent with activity against influenza via a novel mechanism of action of inhibition of cap-dependent endonuclease (CEN). The novel agent was approved in October of 2018 in the United States for the treatment of acute uncomplicated influenza A and B in patients aged 12 years or older. Baloxavir is given as a single weight-based dose of 40 mg orally once for patients weighing less than 80 kg and 80 mg orally once for those weighing 80 kg or more within 48 hours of symptom onset. In comparison with current therapy, baloxavir is as effective in decreasing time to symptom alleviation as the drug of choice, oseltamivir, and significantly reduces viral load 1 day after treatment compared with placebo and oseltamivir. In safety analyses baloxavir was well tolerated with only mild adverse events reported (nausea, headache, diarrhea, bronchitis, nasopharyngitis), thus providing a safe and reliable alternative option to current therapy for acute uncomplicated influenza. Further studies are being conducted to evaluate the use of baloxavir in additional patient populations including pediatric patients less than 12 years of age and patients who are at high risk of complications related to influenza.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Spain	31250840	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31250840	headache
Lancet (London, England)	Mortality, morbidity, and risk factors in China and its provinces, 1990-2017: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017.	China National Key Research and Development Program and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31248666	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31248666	headache
Journal of medical case reports	Kissing stent management of stenosis of two branches of left renal artery bifurcation: a case report.	For patients with uncontrolled hypertension despite receiving medications, renal Doppler ultrasound should be included in the diagnostic workup for secondary hypertension. Once renal artery stenosis is suspected, renal angiography is highly recommended because the technique is able to accurately diagnose stenosis in the branch arteries, unlike computed tomographic angiography and magnetic resonance angiography. Percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty is the treatment of choice for renal artery stenosis in patients with renovascular hypertension or renal dysfunction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31248449	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31248449	headache
Journal of child neurology	None	Headache with neurologic deficits and cerebrospinal fluid lymphocytosis (HaNDL) is a rare headache syndrome included in the Classification of Headache of the International Headache Society as a "headache attributed to non-infectious inflammatory intracranial disease." We report one 15-year-old patient with clinical history and cerebrospinal fluid findings compatible with the diagnosis of HaNDL in whom 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31248324	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31248324	headache
The journal of maternal-fetal & neonatal medicine : the official journal of the European Association of Perinatal Medicine, the Federation of Asia and Oceania Perinatal Societies, the International Society of Perinatal Obstetricians	The comparison of placental abruption coupled with and without preeclampsia and/or intrauterine growth restriction in singleton pregnancies.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31248311	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31248311	headache
Psychiatry investigation	Diagnostic Neuroimaging in Headache Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	The present findings indicate that limited neuroimaging methods should be carefully considered for headache diagnostic purposes when there are red flag symptoms. Limitations and suggested directions for future studies on neuroimaging in headache patients are described.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31247699	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31247699	headache
Hinyokika kiyo. Acta urologica Japonica	[Gonadotroph Pituitary Adenoma Causing Severe Headache Following Repeated Use of GnRH Agonist for Prostate Cancer].	Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists play an important role in androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) employed for locally advanced prostate cancer. A 76-year-old man presented with elevated levels of prostate-specific antigen (PSA, 8.33 ng/ml). Subsequently he was diagnosed with cT3bN0M0 prostate cancer, Gleason score 4＋5. Before he was referred to our clinic, he had been administered bicalutamide (80 mg/day) daily by the referring physician, followed by subcutaneous injection of goserelin (3. 6 mg) 15 days later. The second dose of another GnRH agonist (leuprolide, 22.5 mg) was administered at his first visit to our clinic, 11 days after goserelin injection, at the discretion of the attending physician (26th day after bicalutamide administration). Bicalutamide administration was concomitantly maintained throughout the period. The patient presented with severe headache the next morning, and imaging studies detected a prominent pituitary adenoma. A trans-sphenoidal surgery was conducted for symptomatic relief. Histopathological analysis revealed a gonadotroph (follicle-stimulating hormone-secreting) pituitary adenoma. Although speculative, repeated injection of GnRH agonist was concluded to be the most likely cause of acute symptomatic gonadotroph pituitary adenoma. The irregular use of medication can cause undesirable and unanticipated adverse events. Awareness is the key to the prevention of such conditions.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31247696	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31247696	headache
World neurosurgery	Pediatric Rhabdoid Meningioma with extension to the heart, a first case report and literature review.	Rhabdoid meningioma is a malignant subtype of meningioma that occurs very rarely in pediatric patients. Additionally, rhabdoid meningioma, when it does occur in pediatric patients, has a high tendency to recur. Radical surgical resection with adjuvant radiotherapy is essential to prolonging survival. This is the first case with extracranial extension to the mediastinal veins and heart.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31247353	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31247353	headache
Journal of oral & facial pain and headache	Acute Rhinosinusitis as an Infrequent Cause of Symptomatic Cluster Headache: Report of Seven Cases.	Cluster headache (CH) is a primary headache disorder characterized by unilateral headache attacks lasting 15 to 180 minutes, occurring between two and eight times a day, and accompanied by autonomic symptoms ipsilateral to the pain. However, cases of symptomatic CH that occur secondary to an underlying structural pathology have also been reported in the literature. In this report, seven patients are presented who were admitted with signs of CH and diagnosed with acute rhinosinusitis depending on extensive clinical and radiologic examinations. Symptomatic CH, though rarely reported in the literature compared to CH, should be kept in mind in patients presenting with the first attack of CH. Moreover, in such patients, whether the pain becomes worse when bending forward and becomes sensitive on palpation should be questioned, and a radiologic work-up should be performed to rule out secondary causes such as rhinosinusitis. In the present cases, the resolution of CH attacks with acute sinusitis therapy confirmed the diagnosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31247057	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31247057	headache
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Differential efficacy of non-invasive vagus nerve stimulation for the acute treatment of episodic and chronic cluster headache: A meta-analysis.	The studies were registered at clinicaltrials.gov (ACT1: NCT01792817; ACT2: NCT01958125).	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31246132	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31246132	headache
Cureus	Eagle's Syndrome: A Case Report of a Unilateral Elongated Styloid Process.	When styloid process elongation or stylohyoid ligament calcification can lead to various symptoms, such as dysphagia, facial pain, globus sensation, and headache, it is termed Eagle's syndrome. It may be unilateral or bilateral. Though the overall prevalence in adults is 4%, only 0.16% of patients are symptomatic. Since the symptoms mimic several other orofacial pains and neuralgia, the diagnosis must be made through a detailed history, clinical examination, and various imaging modalities. The case of facial pain in a 22-year-old female patient who was diagnosed to have a unilateral elongated styloid process is discussed in this paper.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31245217	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31245217	headache
Cureus	A Case Report of Moyamoya Disease Presenting as Headache in a 35-year-old Hispanic Man.	Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a rare, chronic vaso-occlusive disease affecting the arteries of the Circle of Willis, leading to the development of characteristic collateral vessels. In this paper, we present a case of a 35-year-old Hispanic male who presented to the emergency department with new onset headaches. On examination, Glasgow Coma Scale score was 3T. The patient was investigated with head CT scan and cerebral angiogram, diagnosed as MMD, and treated with emergent ventriculostomy. Ultimately, the patient underwent extracranial-intracranial (EC-IC) bypass surgery for treatment of Moyamoya.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31245213	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31245213	headache
Frontiers in immunology	High-Dose Intravenous Immunoglobulin in Skin Autoimmune Disease.	The immunomodulatory potential and low incidence of severe side effects of high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) treatment led to its successful application in a variety of dermatological autoimmune diseases over the last two decades. IVIg is usually administered at a dose of 2 g per kg body weight distributed over 2-5 days every 4 weeks. They are most commonly used as a second- or third-line treatment in dermatological autoimmune disease (pemphigus vulgaris, pemphigus foliaceus, bullous pemphigoid, mucous membrane pemphigoid, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, dermatomyositis, systemic vasculitis, and systemic lupus erythematosus). However, first-line treatment may be warranted in special circumstances like concomitant malignancy, a foudroyant clinical course, and contraindications against alternative treatments. Furthermore, IVIg can be considered first line in scleromyxedema. Production of IVIg for medical use is strictly regulated to ensure a low risk of pathogen transmission and comparable quality of individual batches. More common side effects include nausea, headache, fatigue, and febrile infusion reactions. Serious side effects are rare and include thrombosis and embolism, pulmonary edema, renal failure, aseptic meningitis, and severe anaphylactic reactions. Regarding the mechanism of action, one can discriminate between functions of the Fcγ region and the F(ab)2 region and their effects on a cellular level. These functions are not mutually exclusive, and more than one pathway may contribute to the beneficial effects. Here, we present a historical background, details on manufacturing, hypotheses on the mechanisms of action, information on the clinical application in the abovementioned conditions, and a brief outlook on future directions of IVIg treatment in dermatology.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31244821	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31244821	headache
Frontiers in neurology	Volume of Hypothalamus as a Diagnostic Biomarker of Chronic Migraine.	It is believed than hypothalamus (HTH) might be involved in generation of migraine, and evidence from high resolution fMRI reported that the more anterior part of HTH seemed to play an important role in migraine chronification. The current study was aimed to identify the alteration of morphology and resting-state functional connectivity (FC) of the hypothalamus (HTH) in interictal episodic migraine (EM) and chronic migraine (CM). High-resolution structural and resting-state functional magnetic resonance images were acquired in 18 EM patients, 16 CM patients, and 21 normal controls (NC). The volume of HTH was calculated and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) was performed over the whole HTH. Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) curve analysis was applied to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of HTH volume. Correlation analyses with clinical variables were performed and FC maps were generated for positive HTH regions according to VBM comparison. The volume of the HTH significantly decreased in both EM and CM patients compared with NC. The cut-off volume of HTH as 1.429 ml had a good diagnostic accuracy for CM with sensitivity of 81.25% and specificity of 100%. VBM analyses identified volume reduction of posterior HTH in EM vs. NC which was negatively correlated with headache frequency. The posterior HTH presented decreased FC with the left inferior temporal gyrus (Brodmann area 20) in EM. Decreased volume of anterior HTH was identified in CM vs. NC and CM vs. EM which was positively correlated with headache frequency in CM. The anterior HTH presented increased FC with the right anterior orbital gyrus (AOrG) (Brodmann area 11) in CM compared with NC and increased FC with the right medial orbital gyrus (MOrG) (Brodmann area 11) in CM compared with EM. Our study provided evidence of structural plasticity and FC changes of HTH in the pathogensis of migraine generation and chronification, supporting potential therapeutic target toward the HTH and its peptide.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31244765	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31244765	headache
CJEM	How to diagnose and treat benign headaches.	A 19-year-old female, university student with a long-standing history of migraine headaches presented to the emergency department (ED) with a 36-hour history of gradual onset of left-sided headache, preceded by visual aura. She stated that her headache was worse than usual and now associated with nausea, vomiting, and photophobia, despite use of oral ibuprofen. On examination, she was afebrile, her SaO2 = 98% on room air, her pulse was 110 beats/minute, and she was breathing 20 breaths/minute. She received a Canadian Triage and Acuity Scale score of 2 due to her pain score of 8/10 on a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS). Her neurological examination was normal and her neck was supple with full range of motion. She was a non-smoker, infrequent cannabis user, and her last menstrual period was normal.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31244456	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31244456	headache
 	Mobility, Remobilisation, Exercise and Prevention of the Complications of Stasis	The positive effects of physical activity on physical and mental health are well known and include weight control, improved balance, flexibility, strength, anxiety reduction and protection from ill health, as well as contributing to independent living and preventing falls. Being mobile and able to self-care and fear of falling are important to patients. A central goal of nursing care following fragility fracture is to maximise mobility. Individual patient goals are determined by their pre-fracture mobility and functional status. Recovery is often compromised for those with limited pre-fracture activity and cognitive impairment, low functional levels postoperatively, older age, polypharmacy, comorbidities, depression, poor nutritional status, lack of social support and not living independently. Many patients never recover their previous level of function after a fragility fracture, and there is significant risk of institutionalisation, new fractures, disability and loss of independence.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314471	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314471	depression
 	Nursing the Patient with Altered Cognitive Function	Cognitive syndromes are common in the older surgical patient. This chapter aims to provide an overview of the causes of altered cognitive function, provide advice on strategies that can be used to identify those at risk and give examples of assessments and interventions to aid diagnosis and treatment. The focus will be on acute confusion or “delirium” but will also comment on how existing cognitive impairment, dementia and depression can impact on patient recovery.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314469	depression
 	Tryptophan-Kynurenine Metabolites in Exercise and Mental Health	In our efforts to identify molecular mediators of the benefits of exercise to human health, we have uncovered a biochemical pathway in skeletal muscle that positively impacts mental health. This mechanism is activated by endurance training and controlled by the transcriptional coactivator PGC-1α1, which induces transcription of several kynurenine aminotransferase (KAT) genes in muscle. KAT enzymes catabolize the neuroinflammatory tryptophan metabolite kynurenine, which can accumulate in the brain and lead to alterations associated with stress-induced depression (among other psychiatric diseases). Here, we discuss our findings in the context of what is known about the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradation and how its many metabolites can directly affect the brain. These findings provide a mechanism for how physical exercise can improve mental health and offers potential therapeutic targets for future antidepressant medications.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314466	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314466	depression
 	Shati/Nat8l and 	Shati/Nat8l was originally isolated as a methamphetamine-related-molecule from the nucleus accumbens of mice. Since then, Shati/Nat8l has been characterized as an 	2019	eng	Review	 	31314412	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314412	depression
Diabetic medicine : a journal of the British Diabetic Association	A pilot randomized controlled trial of a gratitude intervention for adolescents with Type 1 diabetes.	This is the first randomized trial of a gratitude journalling intervention for adolescents with Type 1 diabetes. Gratitude journalling interventions represent a clinically usable approach. If and how it helps to stabilise glycaemic control in adolescents with Type 1 diabetes remains to be confirmed in future research. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31315150	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315150	depression
Psychotherapie, Psychosomatik, medizinische Psychologie	[Resilience in Long-Term Cancer Survivors - Associations with Psychological Distress and Sociodemographic Characteristics].	Vor allem Patienten mit einer geringen Resilienz benötigen langfristige Unterstützung bei der Verarbeitung der Krebserkrankung und eine Einbindung in psychosoziale Nachsorge-Programme (Cancer-Survivorship-Care-Pläne).	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31315142	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315142	depression
Psychotherapie, Psychosomatik, medizinische Psychologie	[Psychotherapeutic Video Consultations in Primary Care - Concept of the PROVIDE Intervention and Results on the Intent to Adopt in Psychotherapists].	Psychische Störungen stellen einen erheblichen Belastungsfaktor für den Einzelnen sowie die gesamte Gesellschaft dar. Erster und in den meisten Fällen einziger Ansprechpartner im Gesundheitssystem ist der Hausarzt. Die Überweisung von Patienten in zeitnahe spezialisierte psychosomatische oder psychotherapeutische Behandlung erweist sich jedoch aufgrund vieler Probleme, insbesondere in ländlichen Gebieten, als schwierig. Zu diesen Problemen zählen etwa lange Wartezeiten, die steigende Prävalenz psychosomatischer und somatopsychischer Komorbidität, altersbedingte Immobilität und patientenseitige Stigmatisierungserwartung. Im Sinne des Integrated Health Care Ansatzes stellt die diagnostische und therapeutische Adressierung psychischer Störungen durch Psychotherapeuten direkt in der Hausarztpraxis ein effektives Versorgungsmodell dar. Hier vorgestellt wird ein telemedizinisches Therapiekonzept für Menschen mit depressiven und ängstlichen Erkrankungen. Im Zentrum steht die Erprobung psychotherapeutischer Videokonsultationen innerhalb der Hausarztpraxis. Es soll ein Überblick über das Therapiekonzept gegeben sowie Ergebnisse zur Umsetzungsbereitschaft des Modells bei niedergelassenen Psychotherapeuten dargestellt werden.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31315140	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315140	depression
Obesity facts	Overweight and Lonely? A Representative Study on Loneliness in Obese People and Its Determinants.	Obesity is associated with physical and medical restrictions and comorbidities, but it also entails psychosocial effects such as social isolation and feelings of rejection. The aim of this study was to investigate the link between loneliness and weight stigma in a large sample of obese individuals. Results were derived from a large representative sample (n = 1,000). The survey included the 3-item version of the UCLA loneliness scale, the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) as well as the Weight Bias Internalization scale (WBIS). The mean UCLA score was 1.943 (SD = 0.771). Respondents with higher levels of depression (B = 0.176), higher internalized weight bias (B = 0.435), and the experience of discrimination (B = 0.286) reported higher levels of loneliness. Future studies should investigate the mediation pathways between obesity, loneliness, and its determinants to provide a framework for successful interventions as part of obesity management programs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31315116	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315116	depression
Sao Paulo medical journal = Revista paulista de medicina	Effect of changes to the formal curriculum on medical students' motivation towards learning: a prospective cohort study.	Curriculum changes were associated with increased motivation towards learning in Year 1, which persisted until Year 6.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314880	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314880	depression
Sao Paulo medical journal = Revista paulista de medicina	Depression and anxiety among patients undergoing dialysis and kidney transplantation: a cross-sectional study.	Depression and anxiety symptoms occurred more frequently among patients undergoing dialysis. Quality of life, comorbidities and loss of vascular access were associated factors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314874	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314874	depression
Revista brasileira de psiquiatria (Sao Paulo, Brazil : 1999)	Incidence of depression in patients with hepatitis C treated with direct-acting antivirals.	The findings of this study highlight the importance of screening for new depression among patients receiving new DAAs, and identify potential associated risk factors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314868	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314868	depression
Revista da Escola de Enfermagem da U S P	Health alterations in nursing students after a year from admission to the undergraduate course.	The nursing academic environment presents the potential for students to become ill. Institutions should rethink their curricular elements, promote resilience, and create spaces to promote students' health.	2019	por	Journal Article	Brazil	31314865	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314865	depression
Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	Memory impairment: an intermediate clinical syndrome symptom in HTLV-1-infected patients?	Patients with IMS presented with memory impairment when compared with asymptomatic patients and seronegative individuals; this is one of the symptoms that aids in the classification of the syndrome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314846	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314846	depression
PloS one	Stem cell enriched lipotransfer reverses the effects of fibrosis in systemic sclerosis.	Oro-facial fibrosis in systemic sclerosis (Scleroderma;SSc) has a major impact on mouth function, facial appearance, and patient quality of life. Lipotransfer is a method of reconstruction that can be used in the treatment of oro-facial fibrosis. The effect of this treatment not only restores oro-facial volume but has also been found to reverse the effects of oro-facial fibrosis. Adipose derived stem cells (ADSCs) within the engrafted adipose tissue have been shown to be anti-fibrotic in SSc and are proposed as the mechanism of the anti-fibrotic effect of lipotransfer. A cohort of 62 SSc patients with oro-facial fibrosis were assessed before and after stem cell enriched lipotransfer treatment. Clinical evaluation included assessment of mouth function using a validated assessment tool (Mouth Handicap in Systemic Sclerosis Scale-MHISS), validated psychological measurements and pre and post-operative volumetric assessment. In addition, to understand the mechanism by which the anti-fibrotic effect of ADSCs occur, SSc derived fibroblasts and ADSCs from this cohort of patients were co-cultured in direct and indirect culture systems and compared to monoculture controls. Cell viability, DNA content, protein secretion of known fibrotic mediators including growth factor- β1 (TGF β-1) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) using ELISA analysis and fibrosis gene expression using a fibrosis pathway specific qPCR array were evaluated. Mouth function (MHISS) was significantly improved (6.85±5.07) (p<0.0001) after treatment. All psychological measures were significantly improved: DAS 24 (12.1±9.5) (p<0.0001); HADS-anxiety (2.8±3.2) (p<0.0001), HADS-depression (2.0±3.1) (p<0.0001); BFNE (2.9 ± 4.3) (p<0.0001); VAS (3.56±4.1) (p<0.0001). Multiple treatments further improved mouth function (p<0.05), DAS (p<0.0001) and VAS (p = 0.01) scores. SSc fibroblast viability and proliferation was significantly reduced in co-culture compared to monoculture via a paracrine effect over 14 days (p < 0.0001). Protein secretion of transforming growth factor (TGF-β1) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) was significantly reduced in co-culture compared to monoculture (p < 0.0001). Multiple fibrosis associated genes were down regulated in SSc co-culture compared to monoculture after 14 days including Matrix metalloproteinase-8 (MMMP-8), Platelet derived growth factor-β (PDGF-β) and Integrin Subunit Beta 6 (ITG-β6). Autologous stem cell enriched lipotransfer significantly improved the effects of oro-facial fibrosis in SSc in this open cohort study. Lipotransfer may reduce dermal fibrosis through the suppression of fibroblast proliferation and key regulators of fibrogenesis including TG-β1 and CTGF. Our findings warrant further investigation in a randomised controlled trial.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314805	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314805	depression
PloS one	The French Pregnancy Cohort: Medication use during pregnancy in the French population.	FPC is an excellent tool for the study of the risk and benefit of drug use during the perinatal period. FPC has the advantage of including a representative sample of French pregnant women, and study medications only available in France in addition to others available worldwide.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314794	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314794	depression
Journal of gerontological social work	Validation Study: The Iranian Version of Caregiver Abuse Screen (CASE) among Family Caregivers of Elderly with Dementia.	Since abuse screening is difficult among the elderly with dementia, detection of elder abuse is a serious issue; meanwhile, the number of available tools to assess elder abuse by caregivers is limited. The aim was to evaluate validity and reliability of the Iranian version Caregiver Abuse Screen (CASE) tool. After the translating process of the tool to the Farsi language for 236 dementia participants ≥60 years old and their informal caregivers' from outpatient' clinics, in a cross-sectional method then the validity, reliability and factorial structure of the CASE was evaluated. The translated Iranian version CASE reveals a good psychometric property (α = 0.868) with strong internal consistency and reliability. Some variables (depression, burden, dementia intensity, and ADLs) were associated with abuse in dementia elderly. The two-factor structure was obtained in exploratory factor analysis labeled interpersonal abuse and neglect. Generally, the Iranian version of CASE approved with sufficient validity and reliability as a suitable instrument to find the risk of elder abuse among dementia caregivers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314705	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314705	depression
Journal of neurophysiology	Field potential 1/f activity in the subcallosal cingulate region as a candidate signal for monitoring deep brain stimulation for treatment resistant depression.	1/f slope can be measured longitudinally in a combined SCC-DBS/LFP recording system and likely conforms to known 1/f circadian variability. The preliminary evidence of 1/f slope increase during treatment response suggests a potential utility as a candidate biomarker for ongoing development of adaptive TRD-neuromodulation strategies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314668	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314668	depression
LGBT health	Comparing the Mental Health of Sexual Minority and Heterosexual Cancer Survivors: A Systematic Review.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314662	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314662	depression
AIDS patient care and STDs	Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale: Evaluation of a New Cutoff Score for Women Living with HIV.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314577	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314577	depression
Sleep	Effect of continuous positive airway pressure on inflammatory, antioxidant, and depression biomarkers in women with obstructive sleep apnea: a randomized controlled trial.	NCT02047071.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314107	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314107	depression
JAMA psychiatry	A Key Differential Diagnosis for Physicians-Major Depression or Burnout?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314066	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314066	depression
Acta biochimica et biophysica Sinica	Exposure to jet lag aggravates depression-like behaviors and age-related phenotypes in rats subject to chronic corticosterone.	Our previous finding demonstrated that chronic corticosterone (CORT) may be involved in mediating the pathophysiology of premature aging in rats. Frequent jet lag increases the risk for many diseases, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, and is associated with the aging processes. However, the effect of jet lag on CORT-induced depression and its association with aging phenotypes remain unclear. In this study, the rats were exposed to both CORT and jet lag treatment, and the differences were analyzed and compared to rats with single CORT treatment. Our results showed that jet lag treatment aggravated CORT-induced depression-like behavior evidenced by sucrose intake test, forced swimming test, and open field test. Additionally, this treatment aggravated the shortening of telomeres, which possibly resulted in decreased telomerase activity, and downregulated the expression of telomere-binding factor 2 (TRF2) and telomerase reverse transcriptase compared to that in CORT rats, as revealed by quantitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis, respectively. The shortening of telomeres may have been caused by increased oxidative stress, which was associated with the inhibition of sirtuin 3. Exposure to jet lag also aggravated the degeneration of mitochondrial functions, as shown by the decreases in the mRNA expression of COX1, ND1, and Tfam. Our findings provide physiological evidence that jet lag exposure may worsen stress-induced depression and age-related abnormalities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31314053	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314053	depression
Telemedicine journal and e-health : the official journal of the American Telemedicine Association	Effects of Nurse-Led Support Via 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313973	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313973	depression
ACS chemical neuroscience	Signaling properties of structurally diverse kappa opioid receptor ligands: towards in vitro models of in vivo responses.	Biased ligands preferentially activate certain signaling pathways downstream of their target receptor, leading to differential physiological or behavioral responses downstream. The kappa opioid receptor (KOR) is a drug target for diseases involving mood and reward, such as depression and addiction. Biased KOR ligands offer the potential to overcome negative side effects that have hampered therapeutic development of KOR agonists in the past, by preferentially activating certain signaling pathways. Understanding relationships between ligand bias and behavior is difficult, however, because differences in cellular context and bias quantification methods lead to variation between studies. Here, a set of 21 structurally diverse kappa opioid receptor (KOR) ligands were tested in parallel, in order to more systematically quantify ligand bias at the KOR. Compounds included the endogenous peptide ligand Dynorphin A(1-17), two novel compounds synthesized for our research, and 18 additional compounds of different structural classes including morphinans and the natural product Salvinorin A. Compounds were tested for their activity in early KOR signaling pathways (G-protein and β-arrestin recruitment) in KOR-expressing U2OS cells, and ligand bias was calculated. A subset of compounds were tested for sedative properties in the rotarod assay in mice. We found that rotarod sedation significantly correlated with β-arrestin signaling in this system, indicating that this in vitro system can be used to accurately describe this in vivo behavior caused by KOR agonists. Additionally, downstream signaling pathways ERK1/2 and mTOR were evaluated, and we determined that signaling via both of these pathways could diverge from KOR-mediated G-protein and arrestin signaling in this system.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313902	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313902	depression
Brain and behavior	Fear renewal activates cyclic adenosine monophosphate signaling in the dentate gyrus.	These findings demonstrated that fear renewal activated cAMP signaling in the DG through decreased PDE4 activity. Because of the role of cAMP signaling in the acquisition or retrieval of fear conditioning and encoding of extinction, it is speculated that initial learning and extinction may have similarities in molecular mechanism, especially fear retrieval and fear renewal may share cAMP signaling pathway in the DG.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313894	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313894	depression
Glia	Persistent increase in ventral hippocampal long-term potentiation by juvenile stress: A role for astrocytic glutamine synthetase.	A traumatic childhood is among the most important risk factors for developing stress-related psychopathologies such as posttraumatic stress disorder or depression later in life. However, despite the proven role of astrocytes in regulating transmitter release and synaptic plasticity, the contribution of astrocytic transmitter metabolism to such stress-induced psychopathologies is currently not understood. In rodents, childhood adversity can be modeled by juvenile stress exposure, resulting in increased anxiety, and impaired coping with stress in adulthood. We describe that such juvenile stress in rats, regardless of additional stress in adulthood, leads to reduced synaptic efficacy in the ventral CA1 (vCA1) Schaffer collaterals, but increased long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission after high-frequency stimulation. We tested whether the glutamate-glutamine-cycle guides the lasting changes on plasticity observed after juvenile stress by blocking the astrocytic glutamate-degrading enzyme, glutamine synthetase (GS). Indeed, the pharmacological inhibition of GS by methionine sulfoximine in slices from naïve rats mimics the effect of juvenile stress on vCA1-LTP, while supplying glutamine is sufficient to normalize the LTP. Assessing steady-state mRNA levels in the vCA1 stratum radiatum reveals distinct shifts in the expression of GS, astrocytic glutamate, and glutamine transporters after stress in juvenility, adulthood, or combined juvenile/adult stress. While GS mRNA expression levels are lastingly reduced after juvenile stress, GS protein levels are maintained stable. Together our results suggest a critical role for astrocytes and the glutamate-glutamine cycle in mediating long-term effects of juvenile stress on plasticity in the vCA1, a region associated with anxiety and emotional memory processing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313857	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313857	depression
Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics	Review article: the incidence and risk factors for irritable bowel syndrome in population-based studies.	Incidence rates were generally lower than previous estimates reflecting physician-diagnosed IBS. The results highlight the importance of other medical and psychosocial problems in the onset of IBS in addition to prior gastrointestinal infections. Aetiological research could be enhanced by studying the underlying mechanisms relating to all of these risk factors.	2019	eng	Review	England	31313850	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313850	depression
Revista espanola de salud publica	[Perceived self-efficacy in patients after a cardiac rehabilitation programme in primary care: A new model of attention.]	La inclusión en los programas de rehabilitación cardiaca realizados en atención primaria mejora la autoeficacia general percibida de pacientes que han sufrido eventos cardíacos.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31313755	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313755	depression
Current opinion in clinical nutrition and metabolic care	Irritable bowel syndrome: how can symptoms and quality of life be improved with diet?	Given the poor evidence and the pathophysiological variability of IBS, the interest of each therapeutic option should be always evaluated individually. Nevertheless, LFD is currently the dietary approach with a higher degree of scientific evidence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313689	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313689	depression
Anesthesia and analgesia	Enough But Not Too Much: Monitoring for Neuraxial Morphine-Associated Respiratory Depression in Obstetric Patients.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313670	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313670	depression
JMIR formative research	Audience Response Systems and Missingness Trends: Using Interactive Polling Systems to Gather Sensitive Health Information From Youth.	Although our methodology-focused study showed that it is possible to gather sensitive mental health data from youths in large groups using ARSs, we also suggest that these nonresponse patterns need to be considered and controlled for when using ARSs for gathering population health data.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31313658	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313658	depression
Violence against women	Predicting Depression Among Jewish and Arab Israeli Women Who Are Victims of Intimate Partner Violence.	This study examined whether there were differences in levels of depression between Arab and Jewish Israeli female victims of intimate partner violence (IPV) and how various personal and environmental variables contributed to depression. A total of 303 women were selected. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313650	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313650	depression
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Depression: A Neglected Comorbidity in Patients with Tuberculosis.	There is high prevalence of depression among TB patients. It is more common in males and alcoholics. Patients who are in the first four months of the treatment are more likely to have depression. There should be regular screening of the patients with TB for psychiatric illness during the course of the treatment for better treatment compliance and outcome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31313544	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313544	depression
Journal of sleep research	Longitudinal sleep efficiency in the elderly and its association with health.	The relationships between older age and sleep efficiency have traditionally been assessed using cross-sectional studies that ignore changes within individuals as they age. This research examines the determinants of sleep efficiency, the heterogeneity in an individual's sleep efficiency trajectory across a period of up to 27 years in later life and its associations with health. The University of Manchester Longitudinal Study of Cognition in Normal Healthy Old Age cohort (n = 6,375; age 42-94 years) was used in this study. Depression and health data were collected using self-report validated instruments (Cornell Medical Index, Beck Depression Inventory and Geriatric Depression Scale). Longitudinal sleep and sociodemographic data were collected using a study-specific self-report questionnaire. A mixed-effect model was performed for sleep efficiency with adjustments for time-invariant and time-variant predictors. Latent class analysis was used to demonstrate subgroups of sleep efficiency trajectories and associations between sleep efficiency clusters and health history of the participants were investigated. Older adults have decreased sleep efficiency over time, with 18.6% decline between 40 and 100 years of age. Three sleep efficiency trajectory clusters were identified: high (32%), medium (50%) and low sleep efficiency (18%). Belonging to the high sleep efficiency cluster was associated with having lower prevalence of hypertension, circulatory problems, general arthritis, breathing problems and recurrent episodes of depression compared to the low efficiency cluster. Overall, ageing decreases sleep efficiency. However, there are detectable subgroups of sleep efficiency that are related to prevalence of different diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313420	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313420	depression
The International journal of eating disorders	Re-conceptualization of anorexia nervosa psychopathology: A network analysis study in adolescents with short duration of the illness.	These findings suggest that anorexia nervosa is characterized by a broad psychopathological spectrum rather than the mere eating disorder core symptoms, confirm the need to re-conceptualize psychiatric comorbidity in this disorder, and provide intriguing diagnostic and therapeutic implications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313374	depression
Perspectives in psychiatric care	Associations of eating alone with type D personality, depression and rejection sensitivity among South Korean university students.	There is a need for interventional programs that can reduce the negative effects of eating alone and prevent depression among students with type D personality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313330	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313330	depression
International journal of psychology : Journal international de psychologie	A randomised controlled trial of the Adult Resilience Program: A universal prevention program.	A randomised, waitlist controlled, trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of the Adult Resilience Program (ARP), a universal prevention social-emotional programme for adolescents and adults, on self-reported depression, anxiety, stress, resilience, and self-esteem. Seventy-six students from a private university in Singapore were randomised to the ARP group or wait-list control (WLC) group and assessments were conducted at pre-intervention (T1), post-intervention (T2), and 6-month follow-up (T3). A 2 × 3 mixed between-within groups multivariate analysis of variance with the between-group factor of Group (ARP, WLC) and the within-group factor of time (T1, T2, and T3) and the dependent variables of depression, anxiety, stress, resilience and self-esteem, with age and stage of degree as covariates showed a significant decrease over time in depression (ηp	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313297	depression
MMW Fortschritte der Medizin	[Empirical investigation to assess the quality of psychiatric treatment].	The result underlines the effectiveness of psychiatric treatment, but also the importance of cooperation between inpatient and outpatient treatment.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31313268	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313268	depression
Journal of cancer survivorship : research and practice	Subjective cognitive functioning and associations with psychological distress in adult brain tumour survivors.	These findings highlight the potential value of psychological interventions targeting anxiety and cognitive effects to improve quality of survivorship after brain tumour.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313128	depression
Clinical rheumatology	Predictor of depressive disorders in patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis.	We investigated the frequency of depressive disorders and determined the predictors of depressive disorders in Korean patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-associated vasculitis. Sixty-one patients with antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV) were enrolled in this study. We assessed the Birmingham vasculitis activity score (BVAS), vasculitis damage index (VDI) and the Korean version of the short form 36-item Health Survey (SF-36). SF-36 consists of the mental component score (MCS) and physical component score (PCS). Depression disorder was identified based on the Korean version of the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale-Revised (K-CESD-R) ≥ 16. Mood states including depression were assessed by the Korean edition of the Profile of Mood States (K-POMS) subscales. The mean age was 62.2 years (19 men). Twenty-eight AAV patients (45.9%) had depressive disorders based on K-CESD-R ≥ 16. Both SF-36 MCS and SF-36 PCS were negatively correlated with K-CESD-R (r = - 0.687 and r = - 0.594) and K-POMS depression (r = - 0.604 and r = - 0.480), respectively. The optimal cut-offs of SF-36 MCS and SF-36 PCS for depressive disorders based on K-CESD-R ≥ 16 were obtained as 48.07 and 55.63. Patients with SF-36 MCS ≤ 48.07 exhibited a significantly high RR for depressive disorders, compared with those without (RR 42.667). Also, patients with SF-36 PCS ≤ 55.63 showed a significantly high RR depressive disorder, compared with those without (RR 13.619). We demonstrated that SF-36 could help to estimate the current depressive disorders. We also suggest a method to obtain the optimal cut-offs of SF-36 to predict depressive disorders. Key points • Both SF-36 MCS and SF-36 PCS were negatively correlated with K-CESD-R and K-POMS depression. • Patients with SF-36 MCS ≤ 48.07 exhibited a significantly high relative risk (RR) for depressive disorders, compared with those without (RR 42.667). • Patients with SF-36 PCS ≤ 55.63 showed a significantly high RR depressive disorder, compared with those without (RR 13.619).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312987	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312987	depression
Journal of neurology	High openness and high extroversion are linked with better time-based prospective memory in multiple sclerosis.	Low levels of openness and extroversion traits are associated with a greater risk of developing time-based PM deficit. Therefore, personality assessment and behavioural interventions should be encouraged in MS clinical practice.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312957	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312957	depression
Wiener klinische Wochenschrift	Challenges in rehabilitation of patients with nontraumatic spinal cord dysfunction due to tumors : A narrative review.	The incidence of cancer-associated non-traumatic spinal cord dysfunction is rising due to population aging and better cancer treatment. The overall benefit of rehabilitation in specialized facilities for traumatic spinal cord dysfunction has been confirmed many times. Because of their fragility and multiple comorbidities cancer patients still face challenges to complete rehabilitation in the spinal rehabilitation facilities. In this narrative review we describe specific aspects, challenges in rehabilitation and opportunities to improve care. A literature search was performed in the PubMed database from 1 January 1978 to 30 November 2018. The focus was to find publications that discuss challenges and opportunities for rehabilitation of patients with non-traumatic spinal cord dysfunction due to a tumor. Most publications described the benefits of rehabilitation in specialized facilities. There were only few publications about survival and functional outcomes after rehabilitation for this patient population. Overall benefits including fewer complications associated with spinal cord dysfunction, less pain and depression, and better quality of life were shown. Within the past decades increasing number of publications revealed a growing interest for this group of patients. Despite major progress in cancer treatment, patients still have a limited vital prognosis and access to specialized rehabilitation units because of the concerns about the medical complexity. Patients with spinal cord tumors can benefit in areas of functionality, mood, quality of life, and survival from inpatient rehabilitation programs, in spite of the increased medical comorbidities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Austria	31312916	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312916	depression
Annals of intensive care	Long-term neurocognitive outcome is not worsened by of the use of venovenous ECMO in severe ARDS patients.	Using the WAIS-IV, VV-ECMO treatment does not appear to worsen long-term cognitive and neuropsychological outcomes in severe ARDS patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312911	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312911	depression
EClinicalMedicine	Effects of continuous positive airway pressure on depression and anxiety symptoms in patients with obstructive sleep apnoea: results from the sleep apnoea cardiovascular Endpoint randomised trial and meta-analysis.	CPAP reduces depression symptoms in patients with co-existing OSA and CVD independently of improvements in sleepiness.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312807	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312807	depression
EClinicalMedicine	Mood After CPAP: Fewer Patients With Depression, but not Fewer With Anxiety.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312803	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312803	depression
Health equity	Assessing the Acceptability of a Peer Mentor Mother Intervention to Improve Retention in Care of Postpartum Women Living with HIV.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312780	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312780	depression
Therapeutic advances in psychopharmacology	What combinations of agomelatine with other antidepressants could be successful during the treatment of major depressive disorder or anxiety disorders in clinical practice?	Even with many antidepressant and anxiolytic drugs available on the market, there are still patients who do not respond well to the standard first or second line treatments for affective or anxiety disorders. The antidepressant agomelatine has been used in Europe for several years. Agomelatine, an agonist at melatonin receptors and an antagonist at serotonin receptors, can be particularly useful in patients suffering from a major depressive disorder associated with insomnia. Some clinical data have shown a limited effect for agomelatine in a subset patients with major depression describe the effect of agomelatine in combination with an established antidepressant, such as escitalopram, venlafaxine, duloxetine, moclobemide or bupropion. A number of case reports published between 2011 and 2016. A successful combination of agomelatine was reported after adjunctive use of agomelatine combined with clomipramine, escitalopram, and venlafaxine in patients with major depression or obsessive-compulsive disorder. Moreover, bupropion or moclobemide augmentation with agomelatine in patients with major depressive disorder led to a significant improvement. Other supportive data have been published, such as analysis of the VIVALDI study, although it should be noted that the study was supported by the manufacturer of agomelatine. In this study, agomelatine in combination with other antidepressants was shown to be effective and well tolerated in practice, although the most effective antidepressant treatment in the study consisted of agomelatine alone and not in combination with other antidepressants. There have also been two published case reports about the concomitant use of duloxetine and agomelatine which were not efficacious. The positive results of agomelatine augmentation with other antidepressants should be confirmed through randomized, double-blind clinical trials.	2019	eng	Review	England	31312426	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312426	depression
Evidence-based complementary and alternative medicine : eCAM	Effectiveness of Laser Acupuncture in Alleviating Chronic Insomnia: A Single-Blinded Randomized Controlled Trial.	For chronic insomnia insomniacs, LLLT appears to shorten the sleep latency, decrease the number of awakening events at night, and improve the sleep efficiency.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312225	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312225	depression
Frontiers in psychology	Depression and Sequential Decision-Making Revisited.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312159	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312159	depression
Frontiers in psychology	The Effect of Emotional Arousal on Inhibition of Return Among Youth With Depressive Tendency.	The occurrence and development of depressive symptoms were thought to be closely related to excessive attention to negative information. However, the evidences among researchers were inconsistent on whether negative emotional information could induce attention bias in depressed individuals. One possible hypothesis is that the arousal level of stimuli regulates the attention bias of depressed individuals to negative emotional stimuli. In the current study, we directly assessed the attentional inhibition of depression-tendency individuals to different arousal levels of negative emotional faces. The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) was used to distinguish the depression-tendency group from the health group. Thirty-three participants in each group completed a simpler cue-target task that comprised four kinds of experimental conditions, in which group was an inter-subject variable, while cue validity, arousal level, and stimulus onset asynchrony were internal variables. By subtracting the reaction time under the valid cue from the reaction time under the invalid cue, we got the magnitudes of inhibition of return (IOR), which reflected the effective suppression of previously noticed irrelevant information. We found that, in health group, the IOR effect was smaller at high arousal level than at low arousal level. This means that even in the normal population, higher arousal level of negative emotional information could weaken the individual's attention inhibition ability. While in the depression-tendency group, the IOR effect only appeared at low arousal level condition, but in the high cue condition it showed the reversal pattern, that was, the cue effect. These results indicated for the first time that the attention bias of depressive individuals to negative emotional stimuli was influenced by the arousal level of stimuli, and the negative stimuli with high arousal level were more difficult to suppress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312156	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312156	depression
Frontiers in psychiatry	The Role of Prefrontal Cortical Surface Area and Volume in Preclinical Suicidal Ideation in a Non-Clinical Sample.	Suicidal ideation (SUI) can occur in the absence of concomitant psychiatric diagnoses, and even normal levels can be problematic among individuals experiencing excess stress or lack of social support. The objective of this study was to investigate the neuroanatomical basis of SUI in non-clinical human populations who are within the normal limits of SUI, after accounting for elevated stress and perceived lack of social support. Neuroanatomical data were collected from 55 healthy individuals (mean age 30.9 ± 8.1 years, 27 females) whose depression severity levels were below the 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312146	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312146	depression
Frontiers in aging neuroscience	Greater Anteroposterior Default Mode Network Functional Connectivity in Long-Term Elderly Yoga Practitioners.	Large-scale brain networks exhibit changes in functional connectivity during the aging process. Recent literature data suggests that Yoga and other contemplative practices may revert, at least in part, some of the aging effects in brain functional connectivity, including the Default Mode Network (DMN). The aim of this cross-sectional investigation was to compare resting-state functional connectivity of the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and posterior cingulate cortex-precuneus (PCC-Precuneus) in long-term elderly Yoga practitioners and healthy paired Yoga-naïve controls. Two paired groups: yoga (Y-20 women, Hatha Yoga practitioners; practicing a minimum of twice a week with a frequency of at least 8 years) and a control group (C-20 women, Yoga-naïve, matched by age, years of formal education, and physical activity) were evaluated for: Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL), and open-eyes resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)-seed to voxel connectivity analysis (CONN toolbox 17.f) with pre-processing-realignment and unwarping, slice-timing correction, segmentation, normalization, outlier detection, and spatial filtering. The analysis included 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312135	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312135	depression
Frontiers in human neuroscience	Response to Commentary: Efficacy and Safety of Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation as an Add-on Treatment for Bipolar Depression: A Randomized Clinical Trial.	 	2019	eng	Comment	Switzerland	31312128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312128	depression
Frontiers in behavioral neuroscience	The Comparison of a New Ultrasound-Induced Depression Model to the Chronic Mild Stress Paradigm.	Willner's "chronic mild stress" (CMS) model is a globally recognized and most commonly used depression model. A depression model induced by ultrasonic exposure of variable frequencies has been created in our laboratory. This article compares two models of the depressive-like state according to three validity criteria. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312126	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312126	depression
Frontiers in cellular neuroscience	Role of Corticotropin Releasing Factor in the Neuroimmune Mechanisms of Depression: Examination of Current Pharmaceutical and Herbal Therapies.	Approximately 3% of the world population suffers from depression, which is one of the most common form of mental disorder. Recent findings suggest that an interaction between the nervous system and immune system might be behind the pathophysiology of various neurological and psychiatric disorders, including depression. Neuropeptides have been shown to play a major role in mediating response to stress and inducing immune activation or suppression. Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) is a major regulator of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis response. CRF is a stress-related neuropeptide whose dysregulation has been associated with depression. In this review, we summarized the role of CRF in the neuroimmune mechanisms of depression, and the potential therapeutic effects of Chinese herbal medicines (CHM) as well as other agents. Studying the network of CRF and immune responses will help to enhance our understanding of the pathogenesis of depression. Additionally, targeting this important network may aid in developing novel treatments for this debilitating psychiatric disorder.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312123	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312123	depression
Turk Kardiyoloji Dernegi arsivi : Turk Kardiyoloji Derneginin yayin organidir	Association between depression and anxiety scores and inflammation in patients with isolated coronary artery ectasia.	The depression score, CRP, and uric acid levels were greater in patients with isolated CAE compared with those of patients with normal coronaries. The anxiety score did not demonstrate a relationship to CAE; however, there was an association between the depression score and CRP, which is an inflammatory marker.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31311901	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311901	depression
The Journal of biological chemistry	The signaling proteins GPR158 and RGS7 modulate excitability of L2/3 pyramidal neurons and control A-type potassium channel in the prelimbic cortex.	Stress profoundly affects physiological properties of neurons across brain circuits and thereby increases the risk for depression. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms mediating these effects are poorly understood. In this study we report that chronic physical restraint stress in mice decreases excitability specifically in layer 2/3 of pyramidal neurons within the prelimbic subarea of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) accompanied by the induction of depressive-like behavioral states. We found that a complex between G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) 158 (GPR158) and regulator of G protein signaling 7 (RGS7), a regulatory GPCR signaling node recently discovered to be a key modulator of affective behaviors, plays a key role in controlling stress-induced changes in excitability in this neuronal population. Deletion of GPR158 or RGS7 enhanced excitability of layer 2/3 PFC neurons and prevented the impact of stress. Investigation of the underlying molecular mechanisms revealed the A-type potassium channel Kv4.2 subunits is a molecular target of the GPR158-RGS7 complex. We further report that GPR158 physically associates with Kv4.2 channel and promotes its function by suppressing inhibitory modulation by cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation. Taken together, our observations reveal a critical mechanism that adjusts neuronal excitability in L2/3 pyramidal neurons of the PFC and may thereby modulate the effects of stress on depression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311860	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311860	depression
BMJ (Clinical research ed.)	Added screen time linked to more depression in adolescents, study finds.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311792	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311792	depression
Enfermeria clinica	Framework analysis: A worked example from a midwifery research.	The details of each stage of the analysis were explained to guide researchers through essential steps in undertaking framework analysis. Health care researchers may find a worked example addressed in this paper as useful when analyzing qualitative data.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31311739	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311739	depression
Enfermeria clinica	Family's support for adolescent victims of bullying.	Based on the findings of this study, the researcher recommends the importance of mental health nurses to play a role as an educator of the family, so that the family can optimize their support for the bullied adolescent.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31311738	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311738	depression
The American journal of geriatric psychiatry : official journal of the American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry	Particulate Air Pollutants and Trajectories of Depressive Symptoms in Older Women.	Long-term exposure to ambient fine particles was associated with increased depressive symptoms among older women without prior depression or cognitive impairment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311712	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311712	depression
The American journal of cardiology	Characteristics and Outcomes of Methamphetamine Abuse Among Veterans With Heart Failure.	Methamphetamine is one of the most commonly abused illicit substances worldwide. Chronic methamphetamine abuse (MA) is associated with the development of a dilated cardiomyopathy. MA in patients with heart failure (MethHF) is increasingly reported yet poorly characterized. This was a retrospective cohort study of veterans treated at the VA Medical Center in San Diego between 2005 and 2015 with a diagnosis of HF and a history of MA. The incidence of MA each year was calculated, and clinical characteristics and outcomes of veterans with HF with and without MA were compared. Among 9,491 veterans with HF, 429 were identified as having a history of MA. Between 2006 and 2015, the incidence of MA in veterans with HF doubled from 3.44% to 6.70%. Of the 429 identified, 106 veterans had a hospitalization for HF and they were compared with veterans with HF without evidence of MA (HF). Compared with veterans with HF, veterans with MethHF were significantly younger (60.7 ± 7.3 vs 71.6 ± 11.6 years, p <0.001), with more frequent co-morbid post-traumatic stress disorder (16.8% vs 4.4%, p = 0.006), depression (28.7% vs 11.0%, p = 0.002), homelessness (27.9% vs 8.9%, p = 0.001), and unemployment (55.8% vs 30.0%, p <0.001). Despite their younger age, veterans with MethHF had high rates of HF readmission or emergency room visit (49% vs 38% in MethHF vs HF, p = 0.34) and mortality at 6 months (27% vs 38% in MethHF vs HF, p = 0.10) compared with HF. In conclusion, MA in veterans with HF is on the rise. Certain demographic and clinical characteristics of veterans with MethHF may contribute to their poor outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311659	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311659	depression
Animal : an international journal of animal bioscience	Combinations of non-invasive indicators to detect dairy cows submitted to high-starch-diet challenge.	High-starch diets (HSDs) fed to high-producing ruminants are often responsible for rumen dysfunction and could impair animal health and production. Feeding HSDs are often characterized by transient rumen pH depression, accurate monitoring of which requires costly or invasive methods. Numerous clinical signs can be followed to monitor such diet changes but no specific indicator is able to make a statement at animal level on-farm. The aim of this pilot study was to assess a combination of non-invasive indicators in dairy cows able to monitor a HSD in experimental conditions. A longitudinal study was conducted in 11 primiparous dairy cows fed with two different diets during three successive periods: a 4-week control period (P1) with a low-starch diet (LSD; 13% starch), a 4-week period with an HSD (P2, 35% starch) and a 3-week recovery period (P3) again with the LSD. Animal behaviour was monitored throughout the experiment, and faeces, urine, saliva, milk and blood were sampled simultaneously in each animal at least once a week for analysis. A total of 136 variables were screened by successive statistical approaches including: partial least squares-discriminant analysis, multivariate analysis and mixed-effect models. Finally, 16 indicators were selected as the most representative of a HSD challenge. A generalized linear mixed model analysis was applied to highlight parsimonious combinations of indicators able to identify animals under our experimental conditions. Eighteen models were established and the combination of milk urea nitrogen, blood bicarbonate and feed intake was the best to detect the different periods of the challenge with both 100% of specificity and sensitivity. Other indicators such as the number of drinking acts, fat:protein ratio in milk, urine, and faecal pH, were the most frequently used in the proposed models. Finally, the established models highlight the necessity for animals to have more than 1 week of recovery diet to return to their initial control state after a HSD challenge. This pilot study demonstrates the interest of using combinations of non-invasive indicators to monitor feed changes from a LSD to a HSD to dairy cows in order to improve prevention of rumen dysfunction on-farm. However, the adjustment and robustness of the proposed combinations of indicators need to be challenged using a greater number of animals as well as different acidogenic conditions before being applied on-farm.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311612	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311612	depression
The International journal of social psychiatry	Concepts of mental disorders in the United Kingdom: Similarities and differences between the lay public and psychiatrists.	The adapted MAQ appeared accessible to the lay sample. Results suggest that the lay public are generally aligned with evidence-driven concepts of common disorders, but may not always understand or agree with how mental health professionals conceptualise them. The possible causes of these differences, future avenues for research and the implications for more collaborative, patient-clinician conceptualisations are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311429	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311429	depression
The Journal of international medical research	Effects of physical therapy on mental function in patients with stroke.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311379	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311379	depression
Nordic journal of psychiatry	Experiences of sexual harassment are associated with high self-esteem and social anxiety among adolescent girls.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311376	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311376	depression
Current medical research and opinion	Bipolar depression: the clinical characteristics and unmet needs of a complex disorder.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311335	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311335	depression
Journal of health psychology	Mental health treatment to assist in heart disease improved outcomes.	In this commentary, we highlight key scientific advancements in the area of depression and heart disease dual diagnosis, to explore how new approaches can be integrated from a mental health counseling perspective. The incorporation of mental health counseling is suggested as an aid in the treatment of patients with a cardiac disease diagnosis. However, there is no structured awareness or training program for mental health counselors to associate depression with heart disease since this involves both a high level of interdisciplinary research and collaboration with existing healthcare providers. Alongside rampant calls for changes in our modern healthcare system, new holistic practices may emerge, placing mental health services at the forefront to assist in improving cardiac disease patient outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311333	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311333	depression
Annals of rehabilitation medicine	Quality of Life Associated Factors in a North African Sample of Lower Limbs Amputees.	In our sample of North African lower limbs amputees the age and the functional status were the most important predictors of the quality of life.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31311254	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311254	depression
Annals of rehabilitation medicine	Identifying Risk of Depressive Symptoms in Adults With Physical Disabilities Receiving Rehabilitation Services: Propensity Score Approaches.	Our findings suggest that adults with physical disabilities receiving rehabilitation services have higher risk of developing depressive symptoms. Therefore, rehabilitation professionals need to pay attention to depressive symptoms and establish therapeutic strategies that can reduce such risk in rehabilitation settings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31311246	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311246	depression
 	Depression (PDQ®): Patient Version	This PDQ cancer information summary has current information about cancer-related depression and suicide risk in both the adult and the pediatric population. It is meant to inform and help patients, families, and caregivers. It does not give formal guidelines or recommendations for making decisions about health care. Editorial Boards write the PDQ cancer information summaries and keep them up to date. These Boards are made up of experts in cancer treatment and other specialties related to cancer. The summaries are reviewed regularly and changes are made when there is new information. The date on each summary ("Date Last Modified") is the date of the most recent change. The information in this patient summary was taken from the health professional version, which is reviewed regularly and updated as needed, by the PDQ Supportive and Palliative Care Editorial Board.	2019	eng	Review	 	26389474	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389474	depression
Behaviour research and therapy	Bringing light into darkness: A multiple baseline mixed methods case series evaluation of Augmented Depression Therapy (ADepT).	Two core features of depression are elevations in negative valence system (NVS) functioning and reductions in positive valence system (PVS) functioning. Existing psychological treatments have focused on the NVS and neglected the PVS, which may contribute to sub-optimal outcomes. The present mixed methods multiple randomised baseline case series preliminarily evaluates Augmented Depression Therapy (ADepT), a novel depression treatment targeting PVS and NVS disturbance, that aims both to reduce depression and enhance wellbeing. Eleven clinically depressed participants were recruited. Intensive time series analyses showed that 7/11 participants improved on both wellbeing and depression. Reliable and clinically significant improvement was observed for 9/11 participants on at least one of these outcomes (and also across a range of other PVS and NVS outcomes). Group level analyses showed significant pre to post change on all outcomes. Benchmarking analyses indicated these effect sizes were at least comparable (and for some PVS outcomes superior) to existing treatments. Gains were largely sustained over one-year follow-up. Qualitative interviews indicated ADepT was feasible and acceptable. These findings provide preliminary support for ADepT as a novel depression treatment. Further evaluation, directly comparing ADepT to existing treatments using randomised controlled trial designs, is now required.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310929	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310929	depression
Journal of affective disorders	Variation in recognition of happy and sad facial expressions and self-reported depressive symptom severity: A prospective cohort study.	Reduced misclassifications of ambiguous faces as happy could be a state marker of depression, but was not associated with subsequent depressive symptoms. Future research should focus on the interpretation of ambiguous social information.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310908	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310908	depression
Journal of affective disorders	Differential neural responding to affective stimuli in 6- to 8-year old children at high familial risk for depression: Associations with behavioral reward seeking.	Function within neural reward regions may be altered in high-risk offspring as young as 6- to 8-years of age. Further, neural reward responding may be linked to lower behavioral response to obtain reward in these high-risk offspring.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310906	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310906	depression
Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology	Diagnostic and Treatment Algorithm for Chronic Nodular Prurigo.	Chronic nodular prurigo (CNPG) is a subtype of chronic prurigo, also described as prurigo nodularis, and a chronic skin condition characterized by intensely pruritic nodular lesions. Although the exact cause of CNPG is unknown, it appears to result from a repetitive itch-scratch cycle induced by neuronal sensitization to chronic pruritus. CNPG is associated with an underlying dermatologic condition in about half of patients, and can also be attributed to systemic, neurologic, psychogenic, or unknown causes. For most patients, multiple underlying causes are identified. Patients with CNPG often experience impaired quality-of-life, sleep disturbance, anxiety, and depression. To encourage consistent and accurate diagnosis and treatment of CNPG across regions, we are proposing a diagnostic and treatment algorithm, which includes initial assessment of core symptoms, detailed dermatological history and clinical examination, patient-reported outcomes, diagnostic workup, and recommended therapies. This information is supplemented with photographs to illustrate clinical appearance and disease severity. As CNPG is often multifactorial and it can take months to years for lesions to heal, interdisciplinary cooperation and long-term management are important.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31310842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310842	depression
Brain, behavior, and immunity	Association of HLA Locus Alleles with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder.	To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to report an association of HLA alleles with PTSD. Altogether, our results support the link between the immune system, brain and PTSD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310798	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310798	depression
Neuropharmacology	Potential link between antidepressant-like effects of ketamine and promotion of adult neurogenesis in the ventral hippocampus of mice.	Recent studies have shown that ketamine, an open channel blocker of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR), is effective for patients with treatment-resistant depression. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the potential link between antidepressant-like effects of a single ketamine administration and dorsoventral differentiation in adult hippocampal neurogenesis. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that elevation in the densities of neuronal progenitors and newborn granule cells by ketamine was seen in the ventral (related to emotion), but not dorsal (related to spatial memory), hippocampus in adult mice, although the densities of neural stem cells were not affected by ketamine in both the dorsal and ventral regions. Promotion of maturation of newborn granule cells by ketamine was evident in the ventral, but not dorsal, hippocampus. Behavioral analyses showed that ketamine did not affect spatial memory but ameliorated depression-related behavior. Western blot analyses showed that the basal expression of the GluN2B, but not GluN1, subunit of the NMDAR was higher in the ventral hippocampus than in the dorsal hippocampus. The induction of expression of GluN2B subunit of the NMDAR, phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR), GluA1 subunit of the α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR), and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), by ketamine was greater in the ventral hippocampus than in the dorsal hippocampus. Our results demonstrate that a single ketamine administration promotes adult neurogenesis in the ventral hippocampus quite selectively. Furthermore, ventral-dominant induction of the GluN2B subunit of NMDAR, p-mTOR, GluA1 subunit of AMPAR, and BDNF, in the hippocampus may underlie the unique antidepressant-like effects of ketamine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310776	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310776	depression
Urology	Nocturia: A Highly Prevalent Disorder with Multifaceted Consequences.	Nocturia is a bothersome, multifactorial condition with many underlying causes and contributing factors. Nocturnal polyuria (NP; overproduction of urine at night) is a frequent component. The prevalence of nocturia increases with age; specific estimates of prevalence are influenced by frequency thresholds used to define it. There is a tendency toward higher prevalence in young women than young men, which is reversed in later life. The association between frequency of nocturnal voiding and sleep disruption is well-documented. Nocturia correlates strongly with shorter sleep during the first part (2-4 hours) of the night, during which the first nocturnal void often occurs. A short time to first void after sleep onset (often referred to as "first uninterrupted sleep period") is associated with increased daytime dysfunction and decreased sleep quality and/or sleep efficiency. Adverse health consequences related to nocturia include poor sleep, depression, reduced quality of life, and increased risk of morbidity, mortality, falls, and fractures; studies have been able to establish a causal role for nocturia in only some of these. The potential impact of nocturia on health increases with age. By age 80, 80% of people will rise at least once per night to void. Despite its associated bother, nocturia is often accepted as a natural consequence of aging and many people do not seek help. Women, in particular, may be reluctant to report nocturia. This article reviews the prevalence of nocturia, possible impact on sleep, mortality and morbidity, and falls, and its importance in the elderly/frail population and women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310770	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310770	depression
Hormones and behavior	Daily hassles, loneliness, and diurnal salivary cortisol in emerging adults.	This study used an intensive protocol to examine the effects of daily hassles and loneliness on diurnal salivary cortisol levels. Fifty Chinese undergraduates (28 females) provided six saliva samples each day for two consecutive days (at 0, 0.5, 3, 6, and 12 h after waking and at bedtime) and completed a questionnaire that included scales to measure daily hassles experienced over the previous month, trait loneliness, and depression. Cortisol data were aggregated over two days and used in subsequent analyses, focusing on the cortisol awakening response, diurnal slope, and overall cortisol output operationalized as the area under the curve with reference to the ground (AUC	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310762	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310762	depression
Journal of neurochemistry	Acid Sphingomyelinase - a Regulator of TRPC6 Channel Activity.	Recent investigations propose the acid sphingomyelinase (ASM)/ceramide system as a novel target for antidepressant action. ASM catalyzes the breakdown of the abundant membrane lipid sphingomyelin to the lipid messenger ceramide. This ASM-induced lipid modification induces a local shift in membrane properties, which influences receptor clustering and downstream signaling. Canonical transient receptor potential channels 6 (TRPC6) are non-selective cation channels located in the cell membrane that play an important role in dendritic growth, synaptic plasticity and cognition in the brain. They can be activated by hyperforin, an ingredient of the herbal remedy St. John's wort for treatment of depression disorders. Due to their role in the context of major depression, we investigated the crosstalk between the ASM/ceramide system and TRPC6 ion channels in a PC12 neuronal cell model (rat pheochromocytoma cell line). Ca	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310676	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310676	depression
Aging cell	Changes in presynaptic calcium signalling accompany age-related deficits in hippocampal LTP and cognitive impairment.	The loss of cognitive function accompanying healthy aging is not associated with extensive or characteristic patterns of cell death, suggesting it is caused by more subtle changes in synaptic properties. In the hippocampal CA1 region, long-term potentiation requires stronger stimulation for induction in aged rats and mice and long-term depression becomes more prevalent. An age-dependent impairment of postsynaptic calcium homeostasis may underpin these effects. We have examined changes in presynaptic calcium signalling in aged mice using a transgenic mouse line (SyG37) that expresses a genetically encoded calcium sensor in presynaptic terminals. SyG37 mice showed an age-dependent decline in cognitive abilities in behavioural tasks that require hippocampal processing including the Barnes maze, T-maze and object location but not recognition tests. The incidence of LTP was significantly impaired in animals over 18 months of age. These effects of aging were accompanied by a persistent increase in resting presynaptic calcium, an increase in the presynaptic calcium signal following Schaffer collateral fibre stimulation, an increase in postsynaptic fEPSP slope and a reduction in paired-pulse facilitation. These effects were not caused by synapse proliferation and were of presynaptic origin since they were evident in single presynaptic boutons. Aged synapses behaved like younger ones when the extracellular calcium concentration was reduced. Raising extracellular calcium had little effect on aged synapses but altered the properties of young synapses into those of their aged counterparts. These effects can be readily explained by an age-dependent change in the properties or numbers of presynaptic calcium channels.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310431	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310431	depression
JAMA	Effect of an ICU Diary on Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Symptoms Among Patients Receiving Mechanical Ventilation: A Randomized Clinical Trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02519725.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310299	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310299	depression
JAMA	Effect of Flexible Family Visitation on Delirium Among Patients in the Intensive Care Unit: The ICU Visits Randomized Clinical Trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02932358.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310297	depression
Psychiatric services (Washington, D.C.)	Clinical Care Quality Among Veterans Health Administration Patients With Mental Illness Following Medical Home Implementation.	Contrary to earlier reports of lower-quality care, patients with and without mental illness had similar preventive and chronic disease management care quality following medical home implementation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310189	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310189	depression
Australasian psychiatry : bulletin of Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists	Heterogeneity in the psychiatric presentation of behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD).	bvFTD is an important differential diagnosis to consider when patients present with atypical psychiatric symptoms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310153	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310153	depression
International journal of fertility & sterility	Stress, Depression, Sexual Function, and Alexithymia in Infertile Females with and without Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: A Case-Control Study.	Infertile females with PCOS experienced higher levels of infertility stress and inability to distinguish and describe their feelings compared with the ones without PCOS. It is suggested that infertility care providers should provide more psychosocial support for infertile females with PCOS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31310074	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310074	depression
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Outcome in Survivors of Middle Cerebral Artery Territory Ischemic Stroke: Can it be predicted?	Our findings show that disability assessment late in the first week after onset of stroke using NIHSS accurately forecast outcome at one month after onset of stroke. The MMSE too is not expected to change at 1 month. Those with aphasia are expected to have greater disability. Based on or study we recommend that stroke patients should be assessed with NIHSS and MMSE before discharge, to explain the prognosis of the patient. Also more intense counselling on controlling blood pressure and diabetes as well as abstinence from smoking should be undertaken routinely.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309796	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309796	depression
Movement disorders : official journal of the Movement Disorder Society	Early limbic microstructural alterations in apathy and depression in de novo Parkinson's disease.	Early limbic microstructural alterations specifically related to apathy and depression emphasize the role of early disruption of ascending nondopaminergic projections and related corticocortical and corticosubcortical networks which underpin the variable expression of nonmotor and neuropsychiatric symptoms in Parkinson's disease. © 2019 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309609	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309609	depression
Journal of youth and adolescence	Prospective Bidirectional Associations between Attachment and Depressive Symptoms from Middle Childhood to Adolescence.	Insecure attachment to parents consistently correlates with adolescent depression. However, the order of cause and effect, the impact of confounding, and gender disparities in this relationship remain unresolved. The present study therefore examined the prospective associations between attachment relationships to mothers and fathers and depressive symptoms in a community sample of Spanish children (n = 904; 49.4% females) assessed biennially from age 10-16 years, net of all unmeasured time-invariant confounding. Insecure relationships predicted depressive symptoms, and more so among girls, but depressive symptoms also forecasted worsened attachment relationships. At ages 12-14, mother-child attachment proved to be more important for the development of depressive symptoms than father-child attachment. These findings reveal a pattern of reciprocal influence between attachment relationships and depressive symptoms that appears to vary as a function of the parental and child's gender and developmental period. Thus, efforts aimed at strengthening the parent-child attachment relationship-across the transition from middle childhood to adolescence-may prevent or reduce depressive symptoms, especially by targeting mothers and female adolescents.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309415	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309415	depression
Rheumatology international	Depression/anxiety symptoms in axial spondyloarthritis and psoriatic arthritis patients in Serbia: a pilot study.	To assess prevalence and change of depression/anxiety symptoms in spondyloarthritis patients and feasibility of depression/anxiety questionnaires. 43 Patients with axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA) and 27 patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) were consecutively recruited. There were 34 patients on biologics and 36 patients on nonbiologics. Patients were not previously treated for depression. The demographic variables, pain, patient global assessment, laboratory, clinical findings, diseases activity scores, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale-short version (DASS-21) were collected. The study visits were at the beginning, after 1 month, after 3 and after 6 months. In axSpA and PsA patients on biologics, BDI and DASS-21 were significantly lower compared to nonbiologics group during time. The axSpA patients on biologics had significantly lower BDI and depression severity by BDI at each time point and lower DASS-21 after 1, 3 and 6 months. BDI in PsA patients who received biological therapy was significantly lower after 3 and 6 months. In biologics groups, BDI significantly decreased after 3 months in axSpA patients and after 1 month in PsA patients. In axSpA patients, there was a medium correlation between BDI and axial pain, patient global assessment and disease activity scores. The biological therapy significantly affected the depression/anxiety symptoms in axSpA and PsA during time. BDI moderately correlated with pain and disease activity in axSpA. BDI and DASS-21 are easy to use in daily practice.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309294	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309294	depression
Zeitschrift fur Gerontologie und Geriatrie	[Quality of sleep in caregiving relatives of people with dementia: investigation of the prevalence and possible predictors].	Caregiving of PwD affects subjective sleep quality as well as daytime sleepiness of caregiving relatives. Both dimensions of sleep quality were associated with several personal and caregiving related variables. Chronic poor sleep quality is a high-risk factor for psychological and physical health problems and should be considered in further research and development of interventions for caregiving relatives of PwD.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31309276	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309276	depression
Blood research	Comparison of quality of life and depression between hematopoietic stem cell transplantation survivors and their spouse caregivers.	This study found that there were no significant differences in QoL or level of depression between HSCT survivors and their spouse caregivers. Family income, gender, and co-morbidities showed significant association with spouse caregiver distress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31309093	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309093	depression
Integrated pharmacy research & practice	Hospital-pharmacy cooperative training and drug-taking compliance in outpatients with chronic pain: a case-control study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31309079	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309079	depression
Journal of the advanced practitioner in oncology	Fitness and Quality of Life Outcomes of Cancer Survivor Participants in a Community Exercise Program.	Exercise is recommended for cancer survivors, as it mitigates treatment side effects and improves overall wellness. Therefore, survivors attend community-based exercise programs and report positive results, but published evaluations of outcomes of these programs are scarce in the literature. The objective of this study is to validate the anecdotal reports of the physical fitness and quality of life benefits of the LIVESTRONG at the YMCA program. A retrospective analysis of deidentified data consisting of 17 program cohorts of the LIVESTRONG at the YMCA program (n = 88) was conducted. Statistically significant improvements were seen when compared to baseline in the physical fitness measures of the 6-minute walk, the chest and leg presses, the sit-and-reach test, and the one-leg stand test, as well as in the domains of the 29-item Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS-29) Profile, a health-related quality of life questionnaire. These domains are physical function, anxiety, depression, fatigue, social role satisfaction, and pain. The anecdotal impression that participation in the LIVESTRONG at the YMCA program improves physical fitness and subjective quality of life perceptions was supported by statistical analysis of the subjective and objective pre- and postprogram measurements for this data set. Exercise in this cancer-specific community exercise program is likely to improve physical fitness and quality of life outcomes.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31308986	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308986	depression
The South African journal of psychiatry : SAJP : the journal of the Society of Psychiatrists of South Africa	Depressive symptoms and associated factors in medical interns at a tertiary hospital.	Interns had a higher prevalence of depressive symptoms when compared to the general population. The feeling of being 'burnt out' was the most significant factor associated with the severity of depressive symptoms. It is imperative that the mental health of both medical students and newly qualified doctors be prioritised, supported and monitored.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308973	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308973	depression
British journal of pain	Examining patterns in opioid prescribing for non-cancer-related pain in Wales: preliminary data from a retrospective cross-sectional study using large datasets.	This is the first large-scale, observational study of opioid prescribing in Wales.Over 1 million individual, anonymised medical records have been searched in order to develop the study cohort, thus reducing recall bias.Diagnosis and intervention coding in the Primary Care General Practice database is limited at input and may lead to under-reporting of diagnoses.There are limitations to the data available through the Secure Anonymised Information Linkage databank because anonymously linked dispensing data (what people collect from the pharmacy) are not currently available. Consequently, the results presented here could be seen as an 'intention to treat' and may under- or overestimate what people in Wales actually consume.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308940	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308940	depression
Journal of tropical medicine	The Immunological 	The epidemiological situation in Tajikistan Republic deteriorated in the 1990s, when an influx of refugees from Afghanistan resulted in mass importation of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Egypt	31308850	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308850	depression
Journal of ginseng research	Effect of Korean Red Ginseng in individuals exposed to high stress levels: a 6-week, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.	Korean Red Ginseng might help to stabilize the sympathetic nervous system and improve cognition in individuals with high stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31308812	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308812	depression
Journal of pain research	Risk factors associated with pain among community adults in Northwest China.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308728	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308728	depression
Pharmacogenomics and personalized medicine	Plasma brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) concentration and the 	BDNF concentrations were significantly lower in patients with attempted suicide/ideation. BDNF concentrations could serve as a response marker for antidepressant treatment in MDD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308724	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308724	depression
Neuropsychiatric disease and treatment	QT and P-wave dispersion during the manic phase of bipolar disorder.	The results indicated that patients with manic BD are at increased risk for cardiovascular autonomic dysfunction. Therefore, clinicians should be more careful about ECG changes and related possible cardiac conduction problems such as cardiac arrthythmias in patients with manic BD. Further longitudinal studies are needed to investigate BD and its phases (depression, mania, and hypomania) with regard to ANS and cardiac abnormalities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308673	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308673	depression
Neuropsychiatric disease and treatment	Cognitive symptoms in major depressive disorder: associations with clinical and functional outcomes in a 6-month, non-interventional, prospective study in China.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308667	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308667	depression
Clinical interventions in aging	Is amputation in the elderly patient with critical limb ischemia acceptable in the long term?	Elderly critical limb ischemia amputees are a fragile population with high mortality rates. Their QoL and HS increased after major limb amputation as compared to the baseline situation and they experienced less symptoms of depression. Moreover, our results show that, in the long-term, major limb amputation in the elderly patients with critical limb ischemia shows an acceptable QoL, which, in some aspects, is comparable to the QoL of their peers. These results can improve the shared-decision making process that does not delay the timing of major limb amputation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308641	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308641	depression
Psychopharmacology bulletin	Improved Efficacy of Pregabalin by Restoring Plasma Vitamin D Levels in Migraine: a Case Report.	Migraine appears to be the most common neurological syndrome in primary care. Pain in migraine is mediated by the release of inflammatory mediators at the level of nerves and blood vessels. The antioxidant and neuroprotective effects of vitamin D in the central nervous system suggest that deficiency of this vitamin can be involved in migraine. Moreover, low serum levels of vitamin D correlates with a higher incidence of chronic pain, including migraine and in co-administered with anti-migraine treatment reduces the frequency of migraine attacks. We report a 46-year old woman affected by migraine, anxiety and mild depressive mood (MSQ score: 24; BDI score: 34; VAS score: 8) that partially improved with pregabalin treatment (VAS: 5). Laboratory findings documented low serum levels of vitamin D (25-hydroxy-vitamin D: 12 ng/mL; normal range: 20-100 ng/mL; 1-25 di-hydroxy-vitamin D: 19 ng/mL, normal range: 25-66 ng/mL). The treatment with 10,000 UI vitamin D during pregabalin therapy induced an improvement of clinical symptoms (pain, anxiety and depression) and of the quality of life. This case report suggest that in chronic migraine patient with anxiety and mild mood depression in treatment with pregabalin a supplementation of vitamin D improvement the clinical symptoms of migraine and a modulation of inhibitoy synaptic neurotransmission may explain this effect in our migraine patient.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31308581	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308581	depression
British journal of social work	The Framework of Historical Oppression, Resilience and Transcendence to Understand Disparities in Depression Amongst Indigenous Peoples.	Given chronic experiences of historical oppression, Indigenous peoples tend to experience much higher rates of depression than the general US population, which then, drives disproportionately high rates of suicide and other health disparities. The purpose of this research was to examine the core components of the culturally grounded Framework of Historical Oppression, Resilience, and Transcendence as they relate to depressive symptoms experienced by Indigenous peoples. As part of a larger convergent mixed-methods study, in this quantitative survey component, we utilised data from a sample of 127 Indigenous adults across two Southeastern US tribes. Regression analysis results signified support for the framework, indicating that historical oppression and proximal stress (daily stressors and lower incomes) were risk factors, whereas family resilience and life satisfaction (a measure of transcendence) were protective factors related to depressive symptoms. The results provide a foundation for future research to build upon in identifying culturally relevant risk and protective factors to ameliorate depression and other health disparities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308575	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308575	depression
British journal of social work	A Culturally Informed Systematic Review of Mental Health Disparities Among Adult Indigenous Men and Women of the USA: What is known?	Related to a broader context of historical oppression, Indigenous peoples of the USA are overburdened with the mental health challenges that social workers tend to treat, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, suicide and substance use disorders (SUD). The purpose of this systematic review is to use the Framework of Historical Oppression, Resilience and Transcendence (FHORT) to identify empirical research on risk and protective factors related to mental health and SUD amongst these populations. This systematic review includes peer-reviewed quantitative and qualitative research articles from 1980 to 2017 focusing on the mental health of US Indigenous adults. A total of thirty-eight peer-reviewed empirical articles met inclusion criteria. Results reveal adults within Indigenous populations are at a high risk for mental health outcomes, including PTSD, depression, suicide, SUD and comorbidity across these outcomes. Underlying risk factors across outcomes included historical oppression and loss, family problems and SUD. Protective factors tended to include family and social support and engagement with tribal cultural activities. Significant variability was identified based on gender and geographic regions. Given that protective factors tended to include cultural, familial and community tenets, holistic approaches are the most promising programmes for social workers to work towards.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308574	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308574	depression
Scientific reports	Sequence analysis of capnography waveform abnormalities during nurse-administered procedural sedation and analgesia in the cardiac catheterization laboratory.	Identifying common patterns in capnography waveform abnormalities and the factors that influence these patterns could yield insights to optimize responses to sedation-induced respiratory depression. Respiratory state sequences for 102 patients who had a procedure in a cardiac catheterisation laboratory with procedural sedation and analgesia were developed by classifying each second of procedures into a state of normal breathing or other capnography waveform abnormalities based on pre-specified cut-offs for respiratory rate and end-tidal CO	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308455	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308455	depression
Scientific reports	Structural MRI at 7T reveals amygdala nuclei and hippocampal subfield volumetric association with Major Depressive Disorder symptom severity.	Subcortical volumetric changes in major depressive disorder (MDD) have been purported to underlie depressive symptomology, however, the evidence to date remains inconsistent. Here, we investigated limbic volumes in MDD, utilizing high-resolution structural images to allow segmentation of the hippocampus and amygdala into their constituent substructures. Twenty-four MDD patients and twenty matched controls underwent structural MRI at 7T field strength. All participants completed the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) to quantify depressive symptomology. For the MDD group, volumes of the amygdala right lateral nucleus (p = 0.05, r	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308432	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308432	depression
Scientific reports	Peripartum depression and infant care, sleep and growth.	Peripartum depression is a common, serious complication in mothers. To assess the influence of infant care, sleep and growth on the risk of peripartum depression, 1,271 mothers of healthy one-month-old infants completed comprehensive questionnaires including the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale. Relationships between high depression scores and variables related to infants' care, sleep and growth were assessed adjusting for other variables. High depression scores were found in 233 mothers, which were associated with variables related to infants' care (poor satisfaction with infant care support, p < 0.001; mothers' passive response to night-time fussing, p = 0.001), sleep (dim bedroom lighting, p < 0.05; short sleep duration, p < 0.05) and growth (poor weight gain, p < 0.05), as well as maternal variables (primiparas, p < 0.001; poor income satisfaction, p < 0.001; poor sleep satisfaction, p < 0.001; daytime sleepiness, p = 0.001). Considering the observed association between high depression scores and infants' care, sleep and growth, a multidisciplinary approach accounting for infant care would be required to prevent peripartum depression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308415	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308415	depression
Scientific reports	BK channel clustering is required for normal behavioral alcohol sensitivity in C. elegans.	The large conductance, calcium- and voltage-activated potassium channel, known as the BK channel, is one of the central proteins that mediate alcohol intoxication and tolerance across species. Although ethanol targets BK channels through direct interaction, how ethanol-mediated BK channel activation causes behavioral intoxication is poorly understood. In. C. elegans, loss of function in SLO-1, the BK channel ortholog, confers profound ethanol resistance in movement and egg-laying behaviors. Here, we show that depletion of SLO-1 channels clustered at the active zones with no change in the overall channel expression level results in locomotory resistance to the intoxicating effect of ethanol, equivalent to that of slo-1 loss-of-function mutants. Likewise, depletion of clustered SLO-1 channels in the sarcolemma and neurons leads to ethanol-resistant egg-laying behavior. By contrast, reduction in the overall SLO-1 channel level by over 70% causes only moderate ethanol resistance in movement, and minimal, if any, resistance in egg laying. Our findings strongly suggest that behavioral ethanol sensitivity is conferred by local, but not global, depression of excitability via clustered BK channels. Given that clustered BK channels are functionally coupled to, and localize near, calcium channels, ethanol may mediate its behavioral effects by targeting BK channels and their coupled calcium channels.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308408	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308408	depression
Journal of Nippon Medical School = Nippon Ika Daigaku zasshi	Improving Mood with Cognitive Behavioral Therapy in a Woman with Mild Cognitive Impairment-a Case Report.	This study investigated the feasibility of a cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) program for a female patient with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), depression, and anxiety, to improve her mood and quality of life. The program comprised of eight 30-minute weekly sessions with interventions such as behavioral activation, relaxation, and cognitive reconstruction, in which the patient's caregiver also participated. An assessment evaluating the patient's condition were conducted before and immediately after the intervention. After 3 and 12 months, the caregiver reported the patient's behavioral and psychological symptoms using self-reported psychological scales concerning depression, anxiety, and quality of life. CBT helped to improve the patient's mood and quality of life in the short term (3 months). However, the results were not sustained in the long term (12 months). These results show that CBT could be a feasible non-pharmacological treatment option and provide preliminary support for wider application of CBT in Japan, even though it improved psychological symptoms in only one patient with MCI in the short term. Therefore, a CBT program should be tailored to meet the needs of patients with MCI and dementia, and regular follow-up sessions should be conducted to evaluate the feasibility of the program and the patient's mental health improvement.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31308314	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308314	depression
Journal of clinical lipidology	High-density lipoprotein cholesterol is associated with multiple sclerosis fatigue: A fatigue-metabolism nexus?	TC to HDL-C ratio is associated with MS fatigue. Our results implicate a potential role for the HDL-C pathway in MS fatigue and could provide possible targets for the treatment of MS fatigue.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307953	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307953	depression
Schizophrenia research	HPA axis in psychotic major depression and schizophrenia spectrum disorders: Cortisol, clinical symptomatology, and cognition.	The Hypothalamic Pituitary Adrenal (HPA) axis has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a variety of mood and cognitive disorders. Neuroendocrine studies have demonstrated HPA axis overactivity in major depression, a relationship of HPA axis activity to cognitive performance, and a potential role of HPA axis genetic variation in cognition. In schizophrenia differential HPA activity has been found, including higher rates of non-suppression to dexamethasone challenge and higher salivary cortisol levels, which have been a premonitory risk factor for conversion to psychosis in adolescents at risk for developing schizophrenia. The present study investigated the simultaneous roles HPA axis activity and clinical symptomatology play in poor cognitive performance. Patients with major depression with psychosis (PMD) or schizophrenia spectrum disorder (SCZ) and healthy controls (HC) were studied. All participants underwent a diagnostic interview and psychiatric ratings, a comprehensive neuropsychological battery, and overnight hourly blood sampling for cortisol. Cognitive performance did not differ between the clinical groups, though they both performed more poorly than the HC's across a variety of cognitive domains. Across all subjects, cognitive performance was negatively correlated with higher cortisol, and PMD patients had higher evening cortisol levels than did SCZ and HCs. Cortisol and clinical symptoms, as well as age, sex, and antipsychotic use predicted cognitive performance. Diathesis stress models and their links to symptomatology, cognition, and HPA function are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307859	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307859	depression
Clinical nutrition (Edinburgh, Scotland)	Can psychobiotics "mood" ify gut? An update systematic review of randomized controlled trials in healthy and clinical subjects, on anti-depressant effects of probiotics, prebiotics, and synbiotics.	CRD42018107356.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307840	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307840	depression
Ophthalmology	Quantitative Assessment of the Retina Using OCT and Associations with Cognitive Function.	Macular thickness was associated with the presence of dementia, but ppRNFL was not. Our results suggest that OCT measurements of the macula could be superior to those of the ppRNFL in assessing neurodegenerative changes and a potentially useful diagnostic biomarker of cognitive function.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307828	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307828	depression
Food and chemical toxicology : an international journal published for the British Industrial Biological Research Association	Corrigendum to "Antidepressive effects of a chemically characterized maqui berry extract (Aristotelia chilensis (molina) stuntz) in a mouse model of Post-stroke depression" [Food Chem. Toxicol. 129 (2019) 434-443].	 	2019	eng	Published Erratum	England	31307821	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307821	depression
American journal of surgery	Burnout and its relationship with perceived stress, self-efficacy, depression, social support, and programmatic factors in general surgery residents.	Burnout in surgery residents is associated with higher levels of depression and perceived stress. The addition of programmatic social events, limiting weekend work, and formal mentoring programs may decrease burnout.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307660	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307660	depression
Acta neuropsychiatrica	Psychological distress and C-reactive protein in a South African national survey.	Psychological distress was associated with elevated levels of CRP among South African adults. However, the association was confounded by a range of factors, with demographic variables (age, sex and population group) having the largest confounding effect. These findings indicate that CRP is not a useful biomarker of psychological distress, and that additional work is needed on the underlying psychobiology of psychological distress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307562	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307562	depression
Journal of translational medicine	Metabolomic signatures and microbial community profiling of depressive rat model induced by adrenocorticotrophic hormone.	Depression rat model induced by ACTH is associated with disturbance of pyruvate metabolism, ascorbate and aldarate metabolism, inositol phosphate metabolism, glycine, serine and threonine metabolism, and glycolysis or gluconeogenesis, as well as changes in microbial community structure. Gut microbiota may participate in the mediation of systemic metabolomic changes in ACTH-induced depression model. Therefore, integrated metabolomic signatures and gut microbial community profiling would provide a basis for further studies on the pathogenesis of depression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307473	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307473	depression
Environmental health and preventive medicine	Depressive symptoms in individuals with family members requiring ADL assistance.	The study results indicated higher depressive symptoms among those with family members requiring ADL assistance and those who care for such family members themselves. This suggests that an alternative to family caregiving is necessary, especially for the elderly, regardless of caregiver sex.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307389	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307389	depression
Journal of pediatric oncology nursing : official journal of the Association of Pediatric Oncology Nurses	Perspectives of Childhood Cancer Symptom-Related Distress: Results of the State of the Science Survey.	Management of symptom-related distress is an important area of pediatric oncology nursing. Participants who attended the Children's Oncology Group (COG) State of the Science Symposium on symptom distress completed an anonymous survey. The purpose was to explore participant perceptions of symptom distress experienced by children receiving cancer treatment on clinical trials, determine how symptom distress is currently assessed at COG institutions, and to identify what interventions are used to reduce symptom distress for these children. Among the 90 symposium attendees, 72% completed the survey, the majority (92%) of whom were nurses. The five most distressing symptoms in children with cancer enrolled on clinical trials identified by survey respondents were nausea/vomiting, fatigue, pain, anxiety, and sleep disturbances. Results from our survey also suggest that symptom distress may differ by disease type. For example, symptoms associated with leukemia/lymphoma included steroid side effects, procedural pain, and neuropathy. The majority of respondents (90%) also reported that symptoms go unrecognized by health care providers. The most commonly described unrecognized symptoms were behavioral (i.e., sadness, anxiety, fear, depression, and emotional needs; 45%) and fatigue (19%). Key focus areas reported by respondents included informal and inconsistent symptom assessment, the need for uniform measurement tools, and improved documentation of symptom-related distress. Management of symptom-related distress is an important aspect of pediatric oncology nursing. Further exploration of symptom distress experienced by children with specific types of cancers, and the development of standardized symptom assessment processes, will provide a foundation for developing future interventions aimed at alleviating symptom-related distress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307322	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307322	depression
Palliative medicine	Multi-disciplinary palliative care is effective in people with symptomatic heart failure: A systematic review and narrative synthesis.	Overall, the results support the use of multi-disciplinary palliative care in people with advanced heart failure but trials do not identify 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307276	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307276	depression
The Annals of otology, rhinology, and laryngology	Make-Up Therapy for Patients With Facial Nerve Palsy.	Make-up therapy to improve the symmetry of facial appearance could afford a noninvasive and low-cost treatment for patients with facial nerve palsy, especially in terms of patient quality of life and psychological condition.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307215	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307215	depression
Clinical rehabilitation	The Stroke Stigma Scale: a reliable and valid stigma measure in patients with stroke.	The Stroke Stigma Scale is a reliable and valid measure of perceived stigma in patients with stroke, which may be useful in stigma prevention and stroke rehabilitation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307214	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307214	depression
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Risk factors and psychological impact of syncope in migraine patients.	Our study showed the potential roles of vascular risk factors in the association between migraine and syncope. Modifiable risk factors for syncope in patients with migraine include body mass index and tea intake. The debilitating psychological impact of co-morbid syncope in migraine patients warrants clinical attention of treating physicians.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307206	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307206	depression
Medicine	Erratum: Increased risk of depression in patients with acquired sensory hearing loss: A 12-year follow-up study: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005312.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305753	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305753	depression
NPJ digital medicine	Delivering digital cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia at scale: does using a wearable device to estimate sleep influence therapy?	Contemporary developments, such as digital Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) and wearable devices estimating sleep, could support the implementation of CBT for insomnia at a large scale. We assessed what characterizes those users who connected a wearable device to the program to estimate sleep diary variables, and whether connecting a wearable device affected insomnia symptom improvement, related well-being, and program interaction. In total, 3551 users (63% female, mean age 44.50 ± 14.78 years) of a dCBT program who completed a post-therapy survey, including 378 users (10.6%) who used a device, were selected. Within-subject, pre-therapy to post-therapy, the Sleep Condition Indicator (SCI, 7 Items) was used to assess insomnia. Two-item measures (depression, anxiety) and single item measures (perceived stress, life satisfaction, work productivity) of well-being were analyzed, in addition to program interaction. For all participants, insomnia symptoms significantly improved following dCBT (t(3504) = 83.33, 	2018	eng	Journal Article	England	31304289	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304289	depression
NPJ science of food	Food for thought: how nutrition impacts cognition and emotion.	More than one-third of American adults are obese and statistics are similar worldwide. Caloric intake and diet composition have large and lasting effects on cognition and emotion, especially during critical periods in development, but the neural mechanisms for these effects are not well understood. A clear understanding of the cognitive-emotional processes underpinning desires to over-consume foods can assist more effective prevention and treatments of obesity. This review addresses recent work linking dietary fat intake and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid dietary imbalance with inflammation in developing, adult, and aged brains. Thus, early-life diet and exposure to stress can lead to cognitive dysfunction throughout life and there is potential for early nutritional interventions (e.g., with essential micronutrients) for preventing these deficits. Likewise, acute consumption of a high-fat diet primes the hippocampus to produce a potentiated neuroinflammatory response to a mild immune challenge, causing memory deficits. Low dietary intake of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids can also contribute to depression through its effects on endocannabinoid and inflammatory pathways in specific brain regions leading to synaptic phagocytosis by microglia in the hippocampus, contributing to memory loss. However, encouragingly, consumption of fruits and vegetables high in polyphenolics can prevent and even reverse age-related cognitive deficits by lowering oxidative stress and inflammation. Understanding relationships between diet, cognition, and emotion is necessary to uncover mechanisms involved in and strategies to prevent or attenuate comorbid neurological conditions in obese individuals.	2017	eng	Review	England	31304249	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304249	depression
Open journal of psychiatry & allied sciences	Phenomenology and predisposing factors of morbid jealousy in a psychiatric outdoor: a cross-sectional, descriptive study.	Out of 970 patients who attended outpatient department, 658 patients were administered the screening questionnaire, 174 qualified who were later assessed with the operational criteria for morbid jealousy. Fifty patients who fulfilled the criteria were assessed. The mean age of presentation for both sexes were 36.44 year (SD=13.12 years). Morbid jealousy was found to be twice as common in males as compared in females. Highest prevalence was found among participants who had higher secondary education, belonged to middle socioeconomic status, and having psychiatric diagnosis of schizophrenia followed by depression. Delusional jealousy was the commonest followed by overvalued idea and obsession. A total of 20% of patients reported substance abuse like alcohol, cannabis, nicotine etc. either currently or in the past. Triggering factors found were spouse working away from home, interaction with opposite sex, attractiveness as perceived by the person with morbid jealousy. Females either as patients of morbid jealousy or as partners of a morbidly jealous spouse, carried the higher risk of suicide as compared to males.	2017	eng	Journal Article	India	31304242	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304242	depression
Child studies in Asia-Pacific context	Parental Emotion Socialization in Military Families.	Reintegration after military deployment is a significant family stressor. Guided by Eisenberg's heuristic model of socialization of emotions, the present study examined the relationships between parental emotion socialization, children's emotionality and children's internalizing symptoms using a military sample. It was also investigated whether the gender of parents and children impacted parental emotion socialization. Questionnaires were gathered from 248 families with a 4-12 year old child (	2015	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31304174	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304174	depression
Neuroimmunomodulation	Elevated TNIP3 mRNA Expression in TNF-α-Secreting Cells from Patients with Major Depressive Disorder.	Our collective findings suggest that molecules associated with negative regulation of innate immunity are aberrantly expressed in patients with MDD and present potential therapeutic targets.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31307045	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307045	depression
Dementia and geriatric cognitive disorders	Validity and Utility of the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale for Detecting Depression in Family Caregivers of Persons with Dementia.	CES-D is a valid and reliable scale for detecting caregiver depression in dementia. It has added utility, beyond that of a caregiver burden scale, in identifying a subgroup of caregivers with depression but not burden. However, two subscales (Positive affect and Interpersonal problems) may require caution in interpretation among non-Caucasian caregivers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31307034	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307034	depression
Psychoneuroendocrinology	Allostatic load in the association of depressive symptoms with incident coronary heart disease: The Jackson Heart Study.	African Americans are at heightened risk for coronary heart disease (CHD), with biologic pathways poorly understood. We examined the role of allostatic load (AL) in the association of depressive symptoms with incident CHD among 2,670 African American men and women in the prospective Jackson Heart Study. Depressive symptoms were quantified using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). Incident CHD was ascertained by self-report, death certificate survey, and adjudicated medical record surveillance. Baseline AL was quantified using biologic parameters of metabolic, cardiovascular, immune, and neuroendocrine subsystems and as a combined meta-factor. Sequential models adjusted for demographic, socioeconomic, and behavioral covariates, stratified to examine differences by sex. Greater depressive symptomatology was associated with greater metabolic, cardiovascular, and immune AL (p-values≤0.036) and AL meta-factor z-scores (p = 0.007), with findings driven by observations among females. Each 1-point increase in baseline depressive symptomatology, and 1-SD increase in metabolic AL, neuroendocrine AL, and AL meta-factor z-scores was associated with 3.3%, 88%, 39%, and 130% increases in CHD risk, respectively (p-values <0.001). Neuroendocrine AL and AL meta-factor scores predicted incident CHD among males but not females in stratified analyses. Metabolic AL partially mediated the association of depressive symptoms with incident CHD (5.79% mediation, p = 0.044), a finding present among females (p = 0.016) but not males (p = 0.840). Among African American adults, we present novel findings of an association between depressive symptomatology and incident CHD, partially mediated by metabolic AL. These findings appear to be unique to females, an important consideration in the design of targeted interventions for CHD prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307010	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307010	depression
Legal medicine (Tokyo, Japan)	CLEIA of humor vitreous in a case of suicidal insulin overdose.	Insulin overdoses have been mostly described in literature as accidental and suicidal deaths, especially in diabetic patients. The present case study deals with a 68 years old male found dead in his bedroom. The victim worked as health care professional in a rescue team, suffering from depression for several years. At the death scene, two ampoules of soluble insulin were recovered close to the body, one of which was empty. At autopsy, no signs of trauma and no injection marks were found at common sub-cutaneous or intravenous injection sites. No other remarkable findings, but hemorrhagic pulmonary edema along with astrogliosis and neuronal degeneration/necrosis in the subcortical regions and corpus callosum were observed. The blood specimen was inadequate due to hemolysis, since it was not centrifugated soon after sampling. Biochemical analysis was performed on bilateral samples of vitreous humor by using electro-chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLEIA). The insulin concentration was 61.11 mU/L in the right vitreous humor and 74.23 mU/L in the left one; the C-peptide concentration was 0.166 ng/mL in right vitreous and 0.157 ng/mL in the left one. The results are in agreement with levels of insulin and C-peptide detected in previous case studies. Based on these findings the cause of death was determined as suicidal insulin overdoses probably by sublingual administration. This way of self-administration was a diagnosis for exclusion as it has been demonstrated that sublingual human insulin has hypoglycemic effects similar to insulin injected. The case study emphasizes the potential role of vitreous humor as reliable alternative substrate for biochemical analysis compared to post-mortem serum or blood samples in cases of fatal insulin intoxication. Furthermore, the CLEIA is an encouraging analytical method to be considered in such cases, although still not validated to perform quantitative analysis of post-mortem fluids.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31307009	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307009	depression
Midwifery	Fear of birth-A prospective cohort study of primigravida in the UK.	The FOBS is a potentially effective way of measuring FOB in clinical practice and research, but it requires refining. Scores are not related to salivary cortisol levels but are correlated with validated scores for anxiety and depression. An enhanced version of the FOBS could be used in clinical practice to measure FOB.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Scotland	31306998	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306998	depression
Journal of affective disorders	Test of a clinical model of poor physical health and suicide: The role of depression, psychosocial stress, interpersonal conflict, and panic.	These findings highlight the importance of considering interpersonal factors as potential mediators in the relationship between poor physical health, mental illness, and suicide. Clinically, the impact of an active major depressive episode on an individual who is struggling with a serious physical illness may be strongly predictive of suicidal ideation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306991	depression
Journal of affective disorders	Relationship between the subtypes of child abuse and affective temperaments: Comparison of depression and bipolar disorder patients and healthy controls using the reclassified Child Abuse and Trauma Scale.	This study revealed that the subtypes of child abuse (especially physical abuse and loneliness/psychological stress) might be associated with MDD and BP.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306990	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306990	depression
Brain, behavior, and immunity	Anti-inflammatory treatment with a soluble epoxide hydrolase inhibitor attenuates seizures and epilepsy-associated depression in the LiCl-pilocarpine post-status epilepticus rat model.	TPPU treatment after SE attenuates SRS and epilepsy-associated depressive behaviours in the LiCl-pilocarpine induced post-SE rat model, and it also exerts anti-inflammatory effects in the brain. Our findings suggest a new therapeutic approach for epilepsy and its comorbidities, especially depression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306773	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306773	depression
The American journal of sports medicine	Effect of a New Rule Limiting Full Contact Practice on the Incidence of Sport-Related Concussion in High School Football Players.	The rate of SRC sustained in high school football practice decreased by 57% after a rule change limiting the amount and duration of full-contact activities, with no change in competition concussion rate. Limitations on contact during high school football practice may be one effective measure to reduce the incidence of SRC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306587	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306587	depression
Colorectal disease : the official journal of the Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and Ireland	Surgical Repair of Traumatic Cloaca: a Modified Technique.	The modified repair technique for traumatic cloaca is feasible and achieves good functional outcomes and improved life quality. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306560	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306560	depression
Acta psychiatrica Scandinavica	The association between depressive mood and ischemic heart disease: a twin study.	Genetic factors and early life environment do not seem to explain the association between depressive mood and ischemic heart disease. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306494	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306494	depression
PloS one	Feasibility and outcomes of a multi-function mobile health approach for the schizophrenia spectrum: App4Independence (A4i).	Relative to the large investments in mobile health (mHealth) strategies for mental illnesses such as anxiety and depression, the development of technology to facilitate illness self-management for people with schizophrenia spectrum illnesses is limited. This situation falls out of step with the opportunity mHealth represents for providing inexpensive and accessible self-care resources and the routine use of mobile technologies by people with schizophrenia. Accordingly, the focus of this study was upon the feasibility of a schizophrenia-focused mobile application: App4Independence (A4i). A4i is a multi-feature app that uses feed, scheduling, and text-based functions co-designed with service users to enhance illness self-management. This study was completed in a large urban Canadian centre and employed pre-post assessments over a 1-month period that examined medication adherence, personal recovery, and psychiatric symptomatology. App use metrics were assessed as was qualitative feedback through semi-structured interview. Findings are reported in line with the World Health Organization mHealth Evidence and Assessment (mERA) checklist. Among the 38 individuals with a primary psychosis who participated, there was no research attrition and classic retention on the app was 52.5%. Significant improvement was observed in some psychiatric symptom domains with small-medium effects. Significant change in recovery engagement and medication adherence were not observed after controlling for multiple comparisons. Those who interacted with the app more frequently were more depressed and had higher hostility and interpersonal sensitivity at baseline. Satisfaction with the app was high and qualitative feedback provided insights regarding feature enhancements. This research suggested that A4i is feasible in terms of outcome and process indicators and is a technology that is ready to move on to clinical trial and validation testing. This study contributes to the small but emergent body of work investigating digital health approaches in severe mental illness populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306439	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306439	depression
PLoS genetics	A gene co-expression network-based analysis of multiple brain tissues reveals novel genes and molecular pathways underlying major depression.	Major depression is a common and severe psychiatric disorder with a highly polygenic genetic architecture. Genome-wide association studies have successfully identified multiple independent genetic loci that harbour variants associated with major depression, but the exact causal genes and biological mechanisms are largely unknown. Tissue-specific network approaches may identify molecular mechanisms underlying major depression and provide a biological substrate for integrative analyses. We provide a framework for the identification of individual risk genes and gene co-expression networks using genome-wide association summary statistics and gene expression information across multiple human brain tissues and whole blood. We developed a novel gene-based method called eMAGMA that leverages tissue-specific eQTL information to identify 99 biologically plausible risk genes associated with major depression, of which 58 are novel. Among these novel associations is Complement Factor 4A (C4A), recently implicated in schizophrenia through its role in synaptic pruning during postnatal development. Major depression risk genes were enriched in gene co-expression modules in multiple brain tissues and the implicated gene modules contained genes involved in synaptic signalling, neuronal development, and cell transport pathways. Modules enriched with major depression signals were strongly preserved across brain tissues, but were weakly preserved in whole blood, highlighting the importance of using disease-relevant tissues in genetic studies of psychiatric traits. We identified tissue-specific genes and gene co-expression networks associated with major depression. Our novel analytical framework can be used to gain fundamental insights into the functioning of the nervous system in major depression and other brain-related traits.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306407	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306407	depression
Obstetrics and gynecology	Use and Misuse of Opioids After Gynecologic Surgical Procedures.	The rate of new persistent opioid use after major and minor gynecologic procedures is substantial.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306333	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306333	depression
Obstetrics and gynecology	Screening and Treatment After Implementation of a Universal Perinatal Depression Screening Program.	Implementation of an institutional policy of universal perinatal depression screening was associated with improvements in perinatal depression screening with concomitant improvements in depression treatment recommendations for women with a positive postpartum depression screen.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306329	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306329	depression
The Journal of nervous and mental disease	The Association Between Child Abuse and Emotional and Behavioral Problems in Chinese School-Aged Boys With Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder.	The aim of our study was to investigate the relationship between child abuse and emotional and behavioral problems in Chinese school-aged boys with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Forty-eight school-aged boys with ADHD and 77 male healthy controls completed the final assessments that included the Child Behavior Checklist, the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale Version 11, the Screen for Child Anxiety Related Disorders, the Depression Self-Rating Scale for Children, and the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire, Short Form. Our findings showed that child abuse could associate with the behavioral problems in ADHD. Regression analysis further showed that child abuse (especially emotional abuse and physical abuse), adverse living conditions, and school anxiety significantly could be contributors to behavioral problems in boys with ADHD. Our study indicated that child abuse may be associated with the behavioral problems in Chinese school-aged boys with ADHD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306291	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306291	depression
The Journal of nervous and mental disease	Refining Psychological, Substance Use, and Sociodemographic Predictors of Suicide Ideation and Attempts in a National Multiethnic Sample of Adults, 2008-2013.	The purpose of this study was to examine psychological, substance use, and sociodemographic predictors of 12-month suicide ideation and attempts across six US racial/ethnic groups-white, Latino/a, Black, Asian or Pacific Islander (A/PI), American Indian or Alaska Native (AI/AN), and multiracial adults. Multiple logistic regression analyses were conducted for 218,765 adults who participated in the 2008-2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health. Overall, commonly cited factors were associated with increased risk for suicide ideation and attempt for some racial/ethnic groups, but not for others. As one example, 12-month depression was associated with 12-month suicide attempt for A/PI, AI/AN, Latino/a, and white, but not for Black or multiracial adults. Alcohol abuse and dependence were also associated with suicide attempt for AI/AN, Black, and white respondents but not for other racial/ethnic groups. Risk factors for suicide ideation and attempt may not increase risk universally. More theoretically supported research is needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306289	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306289	depression
Anesthesia and analgesia	Postoperative Respiratory Depression May Be Related to Undiagnosed Sleep-Disordered Breathing or Obstructive Sleep Apnea.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306241	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306241	depression
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Can Subjective Memory Complaints Identify Aβ Positive and Aβ Negative Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment Patients?	Evaluating SMCs does not seem helpful to identify, among patients with aMCI, those who have AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306132	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306132	depression
Substance abuse	Opioid use patterns and risk characteristics among injured patients.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306083	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306083	depression
Journal of psychosocial nursing and mental health services	Depression Screening Among African American Adults in the Primary Care Setting.	Although depression is treatable with medication and psychotherapy, it is often left undiagnosed or misdiagnosed in African American communities. African American patients may experience poor outcomes when medical problems coexist with undiagnosed and untreated mental health issues, such as depression. This is a concern because depression can inhibit compliance with providers' treatment plans. A major factor in treatment of depression is assessment and recognition of the condition itself so that a proper diagnosis and treatment plan can be determined. The purpose of the current study was to examine the effects of a depression screening tool on depression diagnoses and treatment initiation in African American patients in a primary care setting. In 200 patients prior to screening implementaion, none were screened or diagnosed with depression. After routine implementation of a depression screening tool, 75 of 182 patients were diagnosed with depression. Using a routine screening tool resulted in a 41% increase in diagnoses of depression. The integration of routine depression screening in the primary care setting may improve overall health outcomes and competence in implementation of care. [Journal of Psychosocial Nursing and Mental Health Services, x(x), xx-xx.].	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305948	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305948	depression
Endocrinology	Ancestral fluoxetine exposure sensitizes zebrafish to venlafaxine-induced reductions in cortisol and spawning.	Due to the prevalence of depression during childbearing, mothers may be prescribed multiple antidepressants, yet little is known about the risk and consequences to the offspring or to the subsequent generations. Fluoxetine (FLX) is usually the first line of pharmacological treatment for affective disorders in pregnant women, and venlafaxine (VEN) may be used as a secondary treatment. Given that FLX and VEN readily cross the placenta, a fetus from a treated pregnant woman is potentially at risk from the endocrine disruptive effects of these chemicals. Pharmaceuticals including FLX and VEN reach aquatic ecosystems through sewage release, so fish may be inadvertently affected. Here, we report that a 6-day FLX exposure during early zebrafish development to an environmentally relevant (0.54 µg·L-1 in water) and a concentration detected in the cord blood of FLX-treated pregnant women (54 µg·L-1 in water) reduces the stress response (the arithmetic difference between the stress-induced and unstressed whole-body cortisol levels) in the adult females and males, an effect that persists for four generations. To model the possibility of a second antidepressant exposure, the filial generation 4 (F4), was exposed to VEN (5 µg·L-1). We found that FLX exposure sensitizes these descendants to VEN. The VEN treatment further suppresses cortisol production in females and decreases spawning rates in adult pairs. This is an important demonstration that in an animal model, a brief ancestral exposure of great-great-grandparents to the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor FLX shapes the physiological responses of future generations to the serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor VEN.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305910	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305910	depression
JAMA pediatrics	Association of Screen Time and Depression in Adolescence.	Time-varying associations between social media, television, and depression were found, which appeared to be more explained by upward social comparison and reinforcing spirals hypotheses than by the displacement hypothesis. Both screen time modes should be taken into account when developing preventive measures and when advising parents.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305878	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305878	depression
The Journal of the American Osteopathic Association	Osteopathic and Allopathic Physician Interpersonal Manner, Empathy, and Communication Style and Clinical Status of Their Patients: A Pain Registry-Based Study.	The mechanisms underlying lesser use of NSAIDs and opioids, superior clinical status measures, and more favorable perceptions of physician interpersonal manner and empathy reported by patients treated by DOs warrant further investigation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305871	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305871	depression
Medicine	Umbilical cord blood-based gene signatures related to prenatal major depressive disorder.	This bioinformatic analysis demonstrated immune-mediated mechanisms might play a fatal role in abnormalities in fetal gene expression profiles caused by prenatal MDD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305436	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305436	depression
Medicine	Effects of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy on neurological and functional rehabilitation in Basal Ganglia Stroke patients with obstructive sleep apnea: A prospective multicenter study.	Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) adversely affects neurological recovery. This study aimed to determine the impact of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and/or rehabilitation in basal ganglia stroke patients with OSA.A prospective controlled trial was conducted in 2015-2018. The subjects received routine rehabilitation training for up to 2 years and were assigned to the intervention and control groups treated with CPAP or without, respectively. Then, treatment effects on sleep parameters, motor function, stroke severity, daily life activities, cognitive function, and psychological states were assessed at different time points.At 6 months, the CPAP group showed significantly lower mean apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), percentage of time with SpO2 at <90% (TS90%), micro-arousal index, and percentages of time in non-rapid eye movement (non-REM) stages 1-2 and REM stage in total sleeping time compared with the control group, and significantly higher mean minimum of peripheral oxygen saturation (L-SaO2%) and percentage of time in stage 3 (P < .001) sleep. The CPAP group showed significant improvements in average the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS), Fugl-Meyer assessment scale (FMA), Barthel index (BI), Minimental state examination (MMSE), Hamilton anxiety scale (HAMA) and Hamilton depression rating scale for depression (HRSD) scores at different times versus the control group, respectively (P < .05). However, no difference in body mass index (BMI) management was observed (P > .05). Repeated-measures ANOVA revealed significant interactions between the two groups for change in FMA, MMSE, BI, HAMA, and HRSD scores from admission to 24 months (P < .001), but no significant was found for BMI (P = .582).Basal ganglia stroke patients with OSA tend to have significantly greater sleeping, neurological and functional recovery after CPAP, and rehabilitation over 2 years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305423	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305423	depression
JBI database of systematic reviews and implementation reports	Association between premorbid neuropsychological conditions and pediatric mild traumatic brain injury/concussion recovery time and symptom severity: a systematic review.	Due to heterogeneity among studies and limitations of the review, findings suggest that clinicians providing post-concussive care may consider the presence of premorbid neuropsychological conditions, specifically learning disabilities or poor academic achievement; anxiety, depression, mood disorders or other psychiatric illnesses; prior head injuries; somatization; sleep disorders; or the presence of multiple neuropsychological conditions as potential contributors to prolonged recovery times or increased symptom severity in children and adolescents with mild traumatic brain injuries.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31305386	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305386	depression
American journal of clinical oncology	Patterns of Postdiagnosis Depression Among Late-Stage Cancer Patients: Do Racial/Ethnic and Sex Disparities Exist?	There are significant differences in the incidence of postdiagnosis depression among racial/ethnic and sexual groups in the United States. The consideration of racial/ethnic in depression prevention and diagnosis among cancer patients should be discussed as a matter of importance to ensure that there is no diagnosis bias among non-Hispanic blacks and Hispanics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305288	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305288	depression
The Journal of genetic psychology	Severe Social Withdrawal: Cultural Variation in Past Hikikomori Experiences of University Students in Nigeria, Singapore, and the United States.	Hikikomori (social withdrawal that lasts six months or longer) is a growing problem among Japanese adolescents and young adults, with recent estimates that approximately 1% of Japanese youths will suffer from an episode of hikikomori in their lifetimes. What remains unclear is whether hikikomori is a culture-bound syndrome or a condition impacting youths around the globe. Hence, the self-reported prevalence and psychosocial correlates of past experiences with hikikomori were examined in cross-sectional samples of university students from Singapore (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305235	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305235	depression
Physiotherapy theory and practice	Effects of aquatic physiotherapy or health education program in women with fibromyalgia: a randomized clinical trial.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305209	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305209	depression
The Journal of dermatological treatment	Guselkumab improves work productivity in patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis with or without depression and anxiety: results from the VOYAGE 2 comparator study versus adalimumab.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305186	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305186	depression
The Journal of dermatological treatment	Treatment patterns in UK adult patients with atopic dermatitis treated with systemic immunosuppressants: data from The Health Improvement Network (THIN).	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305182	depression
The American journal of orthopsychiatry	Compassionate meditation to heal from race-related stress: A pilot study with Asian Americans.	Racism and race-related stress can negatively impact the mental health status of ethnic minorities. In recent years, college campuses have held demonstrations to promote awareness regarding racism and to call for resources to help improve campus climate and to address the needs of students of color. This study answers this call by developing and evaluating the benefits of a peer-led compassionate meditation program to help students of color heal from race-related stress. To date, no studies have examined whether compassionate meditation (a specific type of meditation) can be used as a therapeutic tool to address racial stress. This article discusses the formative process for developing and pilot-testing the effects of this culturally responsive 8-session compassionate meditation program with Asian American college students. Despite a small sample size, results were promising. and participants evidenced decreases in general distress, as well as depression, anxiety, and PTSD symptoms. Moreover, by the end of the program, fewer students were clinically depressed. The results of this study provide some initial evidence that brief, culturally responsive compassionate meditation interventions may be a promising and cost-effective method for addressing the impact of racism and race-related stress. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305116	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305116	depression
The American journal of orthopsychiatry	Mechanisms of action in AWARE: A culturally informed intervention for 1.5- and 2nd-generation Asian American women.	Young Asian American women have high rates of depression and suicidality; however, few interventions address the urgent need for culturally informed care. Asian Women's Action for Resilience and Empowerment (AWARE) aims to be the first gender and culturally specific group psychotherapy intervention designed to improve mental and sexual health in Asian American women with trauma. This article specifically focuses on identifying the mechanisms of action that were responsible for improving mental health and well-being among those who participated in AWARE randomized controlled trial. Of the 435 women screened for the study, 63 Chinese, Korean, and Vietnamese women with histories of interpersonal violence were randomized into either the intervention (n = 32) or waitlist control groups (n = 31). Data from 16 posttrial focus group sessions were then thematically analyzed to explore the key themes and mechanisms of action of the AWARE intervention. Analysis revealed four cultural mechanisms that facilitated mental health improvements: psychoeducation on disempowering parenting, the reduction of mental illness-related stigma, community and relational building, and a heightened sense of empowerment. Results suggest that the AWARE intervention fosters Asian American women's well-being on an individual level and encourages social engagement through culturally salient messages. Women in the study were able to expand their social support network, engage in activism, and develop an empowered connection to their community. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305115	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305115	depression
European annals of allergy and clinical immunology	Anxiety/depression changes are associated with improved asthma control perception in asthmatic adolescents after adequate management.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31305035	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305035	depression
International journal of psychology : Journal international de psychologie	The effects of exposure to political and domestic violence on preschool children and their mothers.	The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of exposure to political violence on preschool children and their mothers. We explored whether these dyads are different from dyads with no known history of exposure to violence and from mother-child dyads with known exposure to domestic violence. Specifically, we explored differences in mothers' psychological status (depression and anxiety), dyadic emotional availability (EA), children's social information processing, and children's social behaviour, in a sample of 216 dyads divided into three groups (exposure to political violence, no exposure to violence, and exposure to domestic violence). We found evidence to support our hypotheses that children exposed to domestic violence exhibit the highest levels of social maladjustment with smaller but still significant differences between children exposed to political violence and children in the comparison group. As expected, the lowest EA scores were found in the exposure to domestic violence group, followed by dyads in the exposure to political violence group. Dyads belonging to the comparison group (no exposure) exhibited the highest levels of EA. These findings contribute to our understanding of the meaning of exposure to political violence, as well as sharpen the difference between exposure to political and domestic violence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304981	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304981	depression
Journal of burn care & research : official publication of the American Burn Association	Routine Psychological Screening for Parent Depressive Symptoms in an Outpatient Pediatric Specialty Burn Clinic.	Pediatric burn injuries are stressful for parents, yet few burn clinics report screening caregivers. We evaluated psychometric properties of a 2-item depression screener administered to parents of children with burns during outpatient clinic visits. We also examined associations between parent depression symptoms and child characteristics. We used a retrospective review of pediatric patients with burn injuries (n=496, age range 0-21 years; M=5.0 years, SD=4.4 years) from an outpatient specialty burn clinic. Sample was 54.8% male; ethnicity was 42.4% Black/African American and 42.2% White. Most children (94.7%) had a burn total body surface area of 10% or less and partial thickness burns (87%). Depression measure was administered at two time points as part of routine care: T1 (n=496) and T2 (n=121). Score range was 0-8. The means were 1.17 (SD=1.74) at T1 and .81 (SD=1.40) at T2. The majority scored ≤ 3 (89.9% caregivers) at T1. The measure demonstrated satisfactory internal consistency at T1 (Cronbach α= 0.74) and T2 (α = 0.82). Scores at T1 and T2 for a subsample (n=121) were related (r= .61, p < .001). Parents of non-White children tended to report higher depression scores at T1. At T2, being female and greater burn degree were associated with higher depression scores This brief 2-item scale used with caregivers of pediatric burn patients is a reasonable method for screening parental depression in this setting. Given the association between parental depression and child characteristics, further studies are needed including examination of predictive validity of parental depression with pediatric outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304969	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304969	depression
Zhong nan da xue xue bao. Yi xue ban = Journal of Central South University. Medical sciences	[Research progress in the relationship between depression and survival outcome in patients with lung cancer].	近年来肺癌发病率和病死率居高不下，与肺癌相关的心理健康问题如抑郁也开始得到关注。越来越多的研究对抑郁发生与肺癌患者生存时间或病死率的关系提出了假说，并在基础研究、前瞻性队列研究和干预研究等方面取得了一定进展。基础研究发现：癌症可通过介导炎症因子的产生导致抑郁情绪的发生；皮质醇和肿瘤表皮生长因子受体基因型可从一定角度解释肺癌患者的高病死率和患抑郁的风险。在前瞻性队列研究中对于抑郁是肺癌患者生存期的重要预测因子存在争议，需要进一步明确。在干预研究方面，虽然有研究证实抗抑郁药物在抗肿瘤氧化治疗方面的潜力，但尚未有充足证据证明心理干预和药物干预对改善肺癌生存结局的有效性。今后有必要进一步阐明抗抑郁药和心理干预对提高该群体生存期的机制。.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31304931	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304931	depression
Disaster medicine and public health preparedness	Lessons Learned from a Medical Response Team 45 Days Post Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico.	Our non-governmental DMT displayed similar characteristics demonstrated by federal DMTs post natural disaster. A number of strategic lessons learned emerged from the public health intervention important to future non-governmental DMTs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304898	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304898	depression
Journal of psychosocial oncology	A randomized controlled trial of problem-solving training (PST) for hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) patients: Effects on anxiety, depression, distress, coping and pain.	The effect of problem-solving training (PST) on psychological distress, coping, pain, overall distress, and problem-solving behavior in hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) patients was investigated in a randomized controlled trial. The intervention was performed during aplasia and included five 1-hour individual sessions; it was started 2 days before HSCT. Forty-five patients were included in the intervention group (IG) and 46 in the control group (CG). The effects were measured at 11 (t2) and 21 days (t3) after HSCT. At t2, 31 patients remained in the IG and 36 patients in the CG. Patients > 18 years, with adequate cognitive performance, and with adequate command of the German language, were included. They were assessed with regard to anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale), psychological distress (Symptom Checklist short version-9), coping (Brief Cope), problem-solving (Social Problem Solving Inventory-Revised), pain (Questions of Pain), and distress (National Comprehensive Cancer Network Distress Thermometer). The data were analyzed using analyses of covariance (general linear model) to examine the differences between the two conditions. Anxiety, psychological distress, pain, and general stress were reduced after PST in the IG compared with those in the CG. Active coping was reinforced in the IG. The IG patients were also better able to reduce negative problem orientation and improve problem implementation. The effect of the PST on these features was between Eta 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304890	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304890	depression
The Journal of international medical research	Assessment of patients' psychological state and self-efficacy associated with postoperative constipation after thoracolumbar fracture surgery.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304812	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304812	depression
Brain injury	Depression, apathy and impaired self-awareness following severe traumatic brain injury: a preliminary investigation.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304792	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304792	depression
Clinical EEG and neuroscience	Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation for Treatment-Resistant Major Depression: A Double-Blind Randomized Sham-Controlled Trial.	In the current study, we tried to evaluate the effect of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on treatment-resistant major depression. We carried out a double-blind randomized sham-controlled trial was conducted in University Hospitals. Individuals with less than 50% decrease in the intensity of depression after 8 weeks of treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors were recruited. Thirty patients (16 women) with a mean (SD) age of 47.2 (12.0) years were randomly allocated to 2 groups. For the active group we administered 2-mA stimulation 20 minutes for each session, with 30 seconds ramp-up from 0 and 30 seconds ramp-down. For the sham group we administered 30 seconds ramp-up to 2 mA, 10 seconds stimulation, 30 seconds ramp-down, and 20 minutes no current. The anode was fixed on the center of F3, and the cathode on F4, over the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. We assessed the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale at the baseline (mean difference = 1.0, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304775	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304775	depression
Journal of psychiatry & neuroscience : JPN	Large-scale evidence for an association between low-grade peripheral inflammation and brain structural alterations in major depression in the BiDirect study	The present study highlights the role of reduced grey matter volume and low-grade peripheral inflammation as interrelated biological correlates of MDD. The reported inverse association between peripheral low-grade inflammation and brain structural integrity in patients with MDD translates current knowledge from experimental studies to the bedside.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31304733	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304733	depression
International journal of geriatric psychiatry	Are loneliness and social isolation associated with cognitive decline?	Both loneliness and social isolation are associated with decreased cognitive function over a 3-year follow-up period. The development of interventions that include the enhancement of social participation and the maintenance of emotionally supportive relationships might contribute to cognitive decline prevention and risk reduction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304639	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304639	depression
La Clinica terapeutica	Evolution of the concept of quality of life in the population in end stage renal disease. A systematic review of the literature.	These results suggest the primary importance of the assessment biological and psychosocial variables by specific tools and the inclusion of effective interventions targeted to patients and their caregivers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31304520	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304520	depression
Forensic sciences research	Novel synthetic opioids - toxicological aspects and analysis.	Over the past few years, there has been an emerging number of new psychoactive drugs. These drugs are frequently mentioned as "legal highs", "herbal highs", "bath salts" and "research chemicals". They are mostly sold and advertised on online forums and on the dark web. The emerging new psychoactive substances are designed to mimic the effects of psychoactive groups, which are often abused drugs. Novel synthetic opioids are a new trend in this context and represent an alarming threat to public health. Given the wide number of fatalities related to these compounds reported within the last few years, it is an important task to accurately identify these compounds in biologic matrices in order to administer an effective treatment and reverse the respiratory depression caused by opioid related substances. Clinicians dealing with fentanyl intoxication cases should consider that it could, in fact, be a fentanyl analogue. For this reason, it is a helpful recommendation to include synthetic opioids in the routine toxicological screening procedures, including analysis in alternative matrices, if available, to investigate poly-drug use and possible tolerance to opioids. To address this public health problem, better international collaboration, effective legislation, effective investigation, control of suspicious "research chemicals" online forums and continuous community alertness are required. This article aims to review diverse reported fatalities associated with new synthetic opioids describing them in terms of pharmacology, metabolism, posology, available forms, as well as their toxic effects, highlighting the sample procedures and analytical techniques available for their detection and quantification in biological matrices.	2019	eng	Review	England	31304442	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304442	depression
NPJ digital medicine	Smartphone-based migraine behavioral therapy: a single-arm study with assessment of mental health predictors.	Progressive muscle relaxation (PMR) is an under-utilized Level A evidence-based treatment for migraine prevention. We studied the feasibility and acceptability of smartphone application (app)-based PMR for migraine in a neurology setting, explored whether app-based PMR might reduce headache (HA) days, and examined potential predictors of app and/or PMR use. In this single-arm pilot study, adults with ICHD3 migraine, 4+ HA days/month, a smartphone, and no prior behavioral migraine therapy in the past year were asked to complete a daily HA diary and do PMR for 20 min/day for 90 days. Outcomes were: adherence to PMR (no. and duration of audio plays) and frequency of diary use. Predictors in the models were baseline demographics, HA-specific variables, baseline PROMIS (patient-reported outcomes measurement information system) depression and anxiety scores, presence of overlapping pain conditions studied and app satisfaction scores at time of enrollment. Fifty-one patients enrolled (94% female). Mean age was 39 ± 13 years. The majority (63%) had severe migraine disability at baseline (MIDAS). PMR was played 22 ± 21 days on average. Mean/session duration was 11 ± 7 min. About half (47%) of uses were 1+ time/week and 35% of uses were 2+ times/week. There was a decline in use/week. On average, high users (PMR 2+ days/week in the first month) had 4 fewer days of reported HAs in month 2 vs. month 1, whereas low PMR users (PMR < 2 days/week in the first month) had only 2 fewer HA days in month 2. PROMIS depression score was negatively associated with the log odds of using the diary at least once (vs. no activity) in a week (OR = 0.70, 95% CI = [0.55, 0.85]) and of doing the PMR at least once in a week (OR = 0.77, 95% CI = [0.68, 0.91]). PROMIS anxiety was positively associated with using the diary at least once every week (OR = 1.33, 95% CI = [1.09, 1.73]) and with doing the PMR at least once every week (OR = 1.14 [95% CI = [1.02, 1.31]). In conclusion, about half of participants used smartphone-based PMR intervention based upon a brief, initial introduction to the app. App use was associated with reduction in HA days. Higher depression scores were negatively associated with diary and PMR use, whereas higher anxiety scores were positively associated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304392	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304392	depression
NPJ digital medicine	Harnessing digital technology to predict, diagnose, monitor, and develop treatments for brain disorders.	Digital technologies-including smartphones, wearables, and social media data-show great potential for helping to alleviate suffering from brain disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, depression, and schizophrenia. However, as researchers, technology developers, disease-focused groups, and others forge forward to take advantage of the tremendous opportunities in this domain, it is important to avoid hype and overpromising, and to ensure that this work is done rigorously and collaboratively. In June 2018, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine's Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders hosted a workshop that brought together a wide range of experts and stakeholders. The workshop provided an opportunity to take stock of the rapidly-evolving landscape and discuss how to work together to address both scientific and practical challenges, so that the potential of digital technologies can be translated into meaningful contributions toward the health of individuals and society. Workshop presentations and discussions focused on four key challenges: transforming data into insight, navigating regulatory pathways, designing user-centered tools, and building partnerships across a complex ecosystem. This article highlights the many issues, challenges, and opportunities discussed by individual participants at the workshop.	2019	eng	Review	England	31304390	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304390	depression
NPJ digital medicine	Using science to sell apps: Evaluation of mental health app store quality claims.	Despite the emergence of curated app libraries for mental health apps, personal searches by consumers remain a common method for discovering apps. App store descriptions therefore represent a key channel to inform consumer choice. This study examined the claims invoked through these app store descriptions, the extent to which scientific language is used to support such claims, and the corresponding evidence in the literature. Google Play and iTunes were searched for apps related to depression, self-harm, substance use, anxiety, and schizophrenia. The descriptions of the top-ranking, consumer-focused apps were coded to identify claims of acceptability and effectiveness, and forms of supporting statement. For apps which invoked ostensibly scientific principles, a literature search was conducted to assess their credibility. Seventy-three apps were coded, and the majority (64%) claimed effectiveness at diagnosing a mental health condition, or improving symptoms, mood or self-management. Scientific language was most frequently used to support these effectiveness claims (44%), although this included techniques not validated by literature searches (8/24 = 33%). Two apps described low-quality, primary evidence to support the use of the app. Only one app included a citation to published literature. A minority of apps (14%) described design or development involving lived experience, and none referenced certification or accreditation processes such as app libraries. Scientific language was the most frequently invoked form of support for use of mental health apps; however, high-quality evidence is not commonly described. Improved knowledge translation strategies may improve the adoption of other strategies, such as certification or lived experience co-design.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304366	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304366	depression
NPJ digital medicine	Preference for in-person psychotherapy versus digital psychotherapy options for depression: survey of adults in the U.S.	Several barriers complicate access to psychotherapy for depression, including time commitment, location of services, and stigma. Digital treatment has the potential to address these barriers, yet long term use of digital psychotherapy is poor. This paper presents data from a mixed-methods, online survey to document concerns patients with depression face when given the choice of in-person psychotherapy and digital psychotherapy. Participants were 164 adults living in the United States who had previously used or considered psychotherapy for depression. Rural-dwelling and racial/ethnic minority (Native American, African American, and Spanish-speaking) respondents were purposively sampled. Participants were asked their preferences for and opinions about four treatment modalities: self-guided digital, peer-supported digital, expert-guided digital, or in-person psychotherapy. Less than half (44.5%) of participants preferred in-person psychotherapy, 25.6% preferred self-guided digital treatment, 19.7% preferred expert-guided digital treatment, and 8.5% peer-supported digital treatment. Principal themes extracted from qualitative analysis centered on the efficacy of digital treatment, access to digital treatment, concerns about peer-supported care, confidentiality and privacy concerns, preference for in-person treatment, skepticism about self-guided therapy, and the impact of social anxiety on the use of video-chat based care. Future development of digital psychotherapy will need to address concerns regarding efficacy, privacy, data security, and methods to enhance motivation to use these treatments.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304356	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304356	depression
NPJ digital medicine	Satisfaction with a digitally-enabled telephone health coaching intervention for people with non-diabetic hyperglycaemia.	International evidence shows that lifestyle interventions can effectively reduce the risk of developing diabetes in people with non-diabetic hyperglycaemia (NDH). A candidate intervention that has potential to be rolled out at population level is health coaching. Digital interventions offer the means to potentially enhance user satisfaction with health coaching and improve efficiencies. We used a randomised controlled trial to test whether a digitally-enabled health coaching intervention that included an online dashboard and telephone health coaching improved user satisfaction and cost-efficiencies compared with a telephone only health coaching intervention. The primary outcome was satisfaction measured by Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ-8). 103 participants with NDH were allocated to the telephone coaching only intervention and 106 participants with NDH were allocated to the digital and telephone coaching intervention. In an intention-to-treat analysis satisfaction was higher in participants allocated to the digital and telephone coaching intervention than those allocated to the telephone only intervention, but the difference was not significant. There were no significant differences between the groups on secondary outcomes (HbA1c, BMI, activation, depression, self-management, health status). From a service commissioning perspective the mean incremental cost of the digitally-enabled intervention was £236 ($332; €270). Call times, including administration, were longer for participants allocated to the digitally-enabled intervention. The results show that user satisfaction with digitally-enabled intervention is broadly equivalent with that of telephone delivered interventions in the context of routinely delivered diabetes prevention programmes. There is scope for future work that assesses how economies of scale can be achieved at larger user bases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304355	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304355	depression
NPJ digital medicine	Large-scale wearable data reveal digital phenotypes for daily-life stress detection.	Physiological signals have shown to be reliable indicators of stress in laboratory studies, yet large-scale ambulatory validation is lacking. We present a large-scale cross-sectional study for ambulatory stress detection, consisting of 1002 subjects, containing subjects' demographics, baseline psychological information, and five consecutive days of free-living physiological and contextual measurements, collected through wearable devices and smartphones. This dataset represents a healthy population, showing associations between wearable physiological signals and self-reported daily-life stress. Using a data-driven approach, we identified digital phenotypes characterized by self-reported poor health indicators and high depression, anxiety and stress scores that are associated with blunted physiological responses to stress. These results emphasize the need for large-scale collections of multi-sensor data, to build personalized stress models for precision medicine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304344	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304344	depression
ERJ open research	The prevalence of poor sleep quality and its associated factors in patients with interstitial lung disease: a cross-sectional analysis.	Poor sleep quality is common in patients with ILD and is independently associated with increasing symptoms of depression and sleepiness. Routine assessment of sleep quality should be undertaken and interventions targeting depression and coexisting sleep disorders may be required in symptomatic patients to determine if sleep quality and ultimately, health-related quality of life improves as a result.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304178	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304178	depression
Integrative medicine research	Overview of systematic reviews with meta-analyses on acupuncture in post-stroke cognitive impairment and depression management.	None	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31304087	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304087	depression
Acute medicine & surgery	Delayed diagnosis of traumatic ventricular septal perforation in penetrating chest injury: hematoma formation in the ventricular septum in CT suggests perforation.	The initial contrast computed tomography shows a septal hematoma. Its presence could be perceived as a perforation site in the interventricular septum.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31304038	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304038	depression
Green chemistry : an international journal and green chemistry resource : GC	Electrodeposition of indium from the ionic liquid trihexyl(tetradecyl)phosphonium chloride.	The electrochemical behavior of indium in the ionic liquid trihexyl(tetradecyl)phosphonium chloride (Cyphos IL 101) was studied. Cyphos IL 101 first had to be purified, as the impurities present in commercial Cyphos IL 101 interfered with the electrochemical measurements. Electrochemical deposition of indium metal from this electrolyte occurs without hydrogen evolution, increasing the cathodic current efficiency compared to deposition from water and avoiding porosity within the deposited metal. Indium(iii) is the most stable oxidation state in the ionic liquid. This ion is reduced in two steps, first from indium(iii) to indium(i) and subsequently to indium(0). The high thermal stability of Cyphos IL 101 allowed the electrodeposition of indium at 120 °C and 180 °C. At 180 °C indium was deposited as liquid indium which allows for the easy separation of the indium and the possibility to design a continuous electrowinning process. On molybdenum, indium deposits as liquid droplets even below the melting point of indium. This was explained by the combination of melting point depression and undercooling. The possibility to separate indium from iron and zinc by electrodeposition was tested. It is possible to separate indium from zinc by electrodeposition, but iron deposits together with indium.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303860	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303860	depression
The Malaysian journal of medical sciences : MJMS	Second Courses of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) in Major Depressive Episodes for Initial Responders and Non-Responders.	In MDE, a second course of TMS is likely to help those who remitted to a first course and then relapsed, as well as those who did not achieve remission with a first course.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Malaysia	31303854	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303854	depression
International medical case reports journal	Successful intralipid-emulsion treatment of local anesthetic systemic toxicity following ultrasound-guided brachial plexus block: case report.	The complication of LAST following ultrasound-guided brachial plexus block could be treated successfully applying the American Society of Regional Anesthesia and Pain Medicineprotocol of intravenous administration of lipid emulsion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31303799	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303799	depression
The lancet. Psychiatry	Influence of baseline severity on the effects of SSRIs in depression: an item-based, patient-level post-hoc analysis.	Swedish Medical Research Council, AFA Insurance, Swedish Brain Foundation, Sahlgrenska University Hospital (Avtal om Läkarutbildning och Forskning), Bertil Hållsten's Foundation, and Söderberg's Foundation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303567	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303567	depression
Seminars in arthritis and rheumatism	Prevalence and metric of depression and anxiety in systemic lupus erythematosus: A systematic review and meta-analysis.	There was high variability in the prevalence of depression and anxiety, ranging from 8.7%-78.6% and 1.1%-71.4%, respectively. This could be attributed to the lack of consistency in the metrics used and its definition for depression and anxiety in SLE. Studies that used a specific metric, such as the CES-D, BDI or HAM-D, yielded similar depression prevalence. The HADS-D had the lowest prevalence. All metrics of anxiety yielded similar anxiety prevalence.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31303437	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303437	depression
Women's health issues : official publication of the Jacobs Institute of Women's Health	The Association of Trauma with the Physical, Behavioral, and Social Health of Women Living with HIV: Pathways to Guide Trauma-informed Health Care Interventions.	These data suggest that trauma is associated with much of the morbidity and mortality experienced by WLHIV. The results of this study support the implementation and study of trauma-informed approaches to health care for WLHIV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303419	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303419	depression
Transplantation proceedings	No Evidence for Particular Association Between HLA-Haploidentical Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation and Psychological Distress.	Attention should be paid to the matter of psychological distress in patients with leukemia who will be treated by HSCT, even HLA-haploidentical HSCT. Such patients need psychological support, especially during the waiting period immediately prior to the transplantation procedure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303412	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303412	depression
Journal of clinical neuroscience : official journal of the Neurosurgical Society of Australasia	The effects of mindfulness and health education programs on the emotional state and cognitive function of elderly individuals with mild cognitive impairment: A randomized controlled trial.	This study aimed to determine the efficacy of mindfulness practice on emotional state and cognitive function of community-living elderly with mild cognitive impairment. A randomized controlled trial was conducted with the experimental group undergoing a Mindfulness Awareness Program (MAP) and an active control group undergoing a Health Education Program (HEP) over a nine month period. Sessions were conducted weekly for the first three months and monthly for the remaining six months. Self-reported questionnaires in English and Chinese were administered through face-to-face interviews to collect data at baseline, three months and nine months. Descriptive statistics and analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) were used to analyse data. Fifty-five elderly participants aged sixty and above, were randomized to MAP (N = 28) and HEP (N = 27) programs. Participants in both intervention arms experienced decreases in depressive and anxiety symptoms over the nine-month period. A significant improvement occurred in the HEP group in depression scores at three months and anxiety scores at both three and nine months. There were no statistically significant changes on cognitive function in both groups over the nine-month period. Both the MAP and HEP can benefit the emotional states of community-living elderly with mild cognitive impairment. Our study supports the usefulness of group-based HEP as a low cost intervention for promoting active aging and psychological health in a community setting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Scotland	31303397	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303397	depression
International psychogeriatrics	The impact of the use of FacebookTM on social support networks and symptoms of depression reported by the elderly.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303179	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303179	depression
HIV research & clinical practice	Quality of life of older women living with HIV: comparative assessment of physical and mental health-related markers using a large Canadian Sexual and Reproductive Health Cohort Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303141	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303141	depression
Topics in stroke rehabilitation	Associations between characteristics of stroke survivors and caregiver depressive symptoms: a critical review.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303131	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303131	depression
Journal of primary care & community health	Depression Outcomes in Smokers and Nonsmokers: Comparison of Collaborative Care Management Versus Usual Care.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303098	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303098	depression
Therapeutic innovation & regulatory science	Development and Validation of a Brief Measure of Self-Management Competence: The Self-Management Self-Test (SMST).	The SMST can be considered an effective self-rating test to assess self-management competence in individuals from the general population as well as in people with major depression. It may also be useful to detect treatment outcomes in people with major depression. The high internal consistency indicates that all 5 items are important for the test as a whole. The low test-retest reliability suggests sensitivity to change. The SMST is likely to differentiate particularly well at low levels of self-management competence, suggesting it may be a useful tool in studies investigating people with depression or other psychiatric disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder. Furthermore, the SMST could be useful in assessing the effect of treatment interventions over time and evaluating patient-reported outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303020	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303020	depression
Eating and weight disorders : EWD	'Impaired Autonomy and Performance' predicts binge eating disorder among obese patients.	Level III, case-control study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302882	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302882	depression
