 	Primary Angioplasty: Efficacy and Outcomes	Internationally ischaemic heart disease (IHD) is the single most common cause of death, and its frequency is increasing. The relative incidences of ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) are decreasing and increasing, respectively. In European countries, the incidence rate for STEMI ranges from 43 to 144 per 100,000 population per year. Similarly, the reported adjusted incidence rates from the USA decreased from 133 per 100,000 in 1999 to 50 per 100,000 in 2008, whereas the incidence of NSTEMI remained constant or increased slightly. STEMI is more common in younger than in older people and is more common in men than in women.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314430	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314430	heart+disease
Molecular and cellular endocrinology	Nicotine induces insulin resistance via downregulation of Nrf2 in cardiomyocyte.	Clinical studies have demonstrated that cigarette smoking is strongly associated with insulin resistance and heart disease. Nicotine is considered the primary toxin constituent associated with smoking. However, the distinct molecular mechanism of nicotine-induced cardiac dysfunction remains unclear. Cardiomyocytes with nicotine-induced insulin resistance are characterized by decreased glucose uptake, as measured by 2-[N-(7-Nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl)amino]-2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-NBDG), a fluorescent derivative of glucose, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Immunoblotting was used to evaluate the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K, p85, Y607). We determined the impact of nicotine on insulin resistance and Nrf2, phospho-ERK and phospho-PI3K expression in the myocardial tissue of a mouse model. Nicotine increased ROS production and depressed insulin-induced glucose uptake in cardiomyocytes. Pretreatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), an antioxidant, reversed nicotine-inhibited glucose uptake induced by insulin. Nicotine exposure directly inhibited Nrf2 and increased ERK phosphorylation in cardiomyocytes, which were obstructed by NAC. Further exploration of signaling cascades revealed nicotine-induced ROS involved in inhibiting PI3K/Nrf2 and activating ERK in cardiomyocytes. Moreover, the mouse model treated with nicotine showed glucose intolerance and impaired insulin tolerance accompanied by inhibited PI3K/Nrf2 and increased ERK in myocardial tissues. Thus, nicotine induces insulin resistance via the downregulation of Nrf2 activity in cardiomyocytes, which is a potential mechanism of the pharmacological effects of nicotine. This study identified potential therapeutic targets against nicotine-related cardiovascular diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31315024	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315024	heart+disease
Journal of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine	Deformation imaging to assess global and regional effects of cardiac regenerative therapy in ischemic heart disease - a systematic review.	6 studies found a positive effect on deformation outcomes without LVEF improvement. Hence, deformation imaging seems at least equal, and perhaps superior, to LVEF measurement in the assessment of cardiac regenerative therapy. However, strategies varied substantially and call for a standardized approach.	2019	eng	Review	England	31314949	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314949	heart+disease
The Permanente journal	Pseudomyxoma Peritonei-An Unusual Cause of Ascites: A Case Report.	Pseudomyxoma peritonei is a rare cause of low SAAG ascites. It is characterized by the deposition of mucinous material on the peritoneal surfaces. The most common site of origin is the appendix, although it can arise from other intraabdominal organs as well. Excision of the tumor combined with intraperitoneal chemotherapy is the preferred modality of treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314718	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314718	heart+disease
Biotechnology and applied biochemistry	Combinational effect of angiotensin receptor blocker and folic acid therapy on uric acid and creatinine level in hyperhomocysteinemia associated hypertension.	Homocysteine [HSCH2CH2CH(NH2)COOH] (Hcy), is a sulfur-containing amino acid of 135.18 Da of molecular weight, generated during conversion of methionine to cysteine. If there is a higher accumulation of Hcy in the blood, i.e. usually above 15 µmol/L, it leads to a condition referred to as hyperhomocysteinemia. A meta-analysis of observational study suggested an elevated concentration of Hcy in blood, which is termed as the risk factors leading to ischemic heart disease (IHD) and stroke. Further experimental studies stated that Hcy can lead to an increase in the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells and functional impairment of endothelial cells. The analyses confirmed some of the predictors for Hcy presence, such as serum uric acid (UA), systolic blood pressure, and hematocrit. However, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ARBs) (except losartan) alone are inadequate for controlling UA and creatinine level, although the addition of folic acid may be beneficial in hypertensive patients who are known to have a high prevalence of elevated Hcy. We hypothesized that combination therapy with an ARB (olmesartan) and folic acid is a promising treatment for lowering the UA and creatinine level in hyperhomocysteinemia associated hypertension. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31314127	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314127	heart+disease
Archivos de cardiologia de Mexico	Sudden Death Report in Mexico (1998-2014).	Existe una subregistro de información epidemiológica oficial; poner el problema real en perspectiva ayudaría a establecer políticas públicas adecuadas tanto para la prevención como para la investigación de las causas de la MS en México.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Mexico	31314013	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314013	heart+disease
Archivos de cardiologia de Mexico	Comparación de oxímetros para detección de cardiopatías congénitas críticas.	El oxímetro ChoiceMMed® presentó mayor cantidad de falsos positivos y mayor tiempo de realización del tamiz cardíaco en comparación al Masimo SET®, sin embargo, ambos presentan un valor predictivo negativo del 100%, siendo igualmente útiles como método de detección de cardiopatías críticas.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Mexico	31314010	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314010	heart+disease
Archivos de cardiologia de Mexico	The world database for pediatric and congenital heart surgery: A collaboration with the Registro Nacional de Cirugía Cardiaca Pediátrica.	Esta asociación promovería el deseo de los países de seguir desarrollando procesos de mejora de la calidad y mejorar el tratamiento general de los niños con cardiopatía congénita.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Mexico	31314005	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314005	heart+disease
Archivos de cardiologia de Mexico	La regionalización de la atención de cardiopatías congénitas: una meta pendiente.	Las cardiopatías congénitas son consideradas las malformaciones más frecuentes. En México cada año entre 12 y 16 mil niños nacen con algún tipo de cardiopatía congénita, y es la segunda causa de mortalidad en menores de 1 año y en niños de entre 1 y 4 años. Se analiza la problemática de la atención de las cardiopatías congénitas desde una perspectiva de políticas de salud en el país, con énfasis en lograr regionalizar su atención con el fin de racionalizar la utilización de los recursos disponibles y con el objetivo de atender al mayor número de pacientes y lograr los mejores resultados clínicos. Se enfatiza la necesidad de promover la cooperación entre las diferentes organizaciones de la sociedad civil y las instituciones para intercambiar ideas que permitan crear consensos y proyectos conjuntos para una mejor utilización de los recursos disponibles para lograr la atención universal y de calidad de los niños con cardiopatía congénita en todo el país.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Mexico	31314004	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314004	heart+disease
Scandinavian journal of caring sciences	A place of understanding: Patients' lived experiences of participating in a sexual rehabilitation programme after heart disease.	The findings highlight the importance of a professional setting including certain competencies such as humour and professional skills when handling the after-care of cardiovascular patients with sexual problems.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Sweden	31313855	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313855	heart+disease
JMIR medical informatics	Improving the Efficacy of the Data Entry Process for Clinical Research With a Natural Language Processing-Driven Medical Information Extraction System: Quantitative Field Research.	Our system could improve both the accuracy and efficiency of the data entry process.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31313661	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313661	heart+disease
Congenital heart disease	Detection of arrhythmias in adult congenital heart disease patients with LINQ	ILRs are a useful adjunct for arrhythmia monitoring in the ACHD population with clinically relevant events in 41% of patients. A special consideration for ILRs could be made for high-risk asymptomatic patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313513	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313513	heart+disease
Journal of nephrology	A simple risk score for prediction of sepsis associated-acute kidney injury in critically ill patients.	The novel risk score model for SA-AKI in ICU can identify patients at high risk to develop AKI. Application of this model could help clinicians to stratify patients for primary prevention, surveillance and early therapeutic intervention to improve care and prognosis of sepsis patients in ICU.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31313123	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313123	heart+disease
Herz	Pulmonary hypertension and valvular heart disease.	Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is an important contributor to morbidity and mortality in patients with left-sided heart disease, including valvular heart disease. In this context, elevated left atrial pressure primarily leads to the development of post-capillary PH. Despite the fact that repair of left-sided valvular heart disease by surgical or interventional approaches will improve PH, recent studies have highlighted that PH (pre- or post-interventional) remains an important predictor of long-term outcome. Here, we review the current knowledge on PH in valvular heart disease taking into account new hemodynamic PH definitions, and the distinction between post- and pre-capillary components of PH. A specific focus is on the precise characterization of hemodynamics and cardiopulmonary interaction, and on potential strategies for the management of residual PH after mitral or aortic valve interventions. In addition, we highlight the clinical significance of tricuspid regurgitation, which may occur as a primary condition or as a consequence of PH and right heart dilatation (functional). In this context, proper patient selection for potential tricuspid valve interventions is crucial. Finally, the article highlights gaps in evidence, and points toward future perspectives.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312873	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312873	heart+disease
JACC. Basic to translational science	Successful Reconstruction of the Right Ventricular Outflow Tract by Implantation of Thymus Stem Cell Engineered Graft in Growing Swine.	Graft cellularization holds great promise in overcoming the limitations associated with prosthetic materials currently used in corrective cardiac surgery. In this study, the authors evaluated the advantages of graft cellularization for right ventricular outflow tract reconstruction in a novel porcine model. After 4.5 months from implantation, improved myocardial strain, better endothelialization and cardiomyocyte incorporation, and reduced fibrosis were observed in the cellularized grafts compared with the acellular grafts. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first demonstration of successful right ventricular outflow tract correction using bioengineered grafts in a large animal model.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312760	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312760	heart+disease
JACC. Basic to translational science	Cathepsin A Inhibitors to Treat Heart Disease: Much Potential, Many Questions.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31312758	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312758	heart+disease
Frontiers in cardiovascular medicine	New Promises and Challenges on Inflammation and Atherosclerosis: Insights From CANTOS and CIRT Trials.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312638	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312638	heart+disease
Frontiers in pediatrics	Microcirculatory Differences in Children With Congenital Heart Disease According to Cyanosis and Age.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312623	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312623	heart+disease
American journal of translational research	Significant role and mechanism of microRNA-143-3p/KLLN axis in the development of coronary heart disease.	Cardiovascular disease predominantly includes coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke, results in high morbidity and mortality. MicroRNA-143-3p (miR-143-3p) is a tumor suppressor and is involved in many cancers. However, the role and mechanism of miR-143-3p in coronary heart disease is still unclear. In this study, we identified that miR-143-3p was up-regulated in rabbit CHD model. The results of TargetScan and the dual luciferase reporter assay indicated that KLLN (killin, p53 regulated DNA replication inhibitor) was a direct target of miR-143-3p. Besides, we revealed that KLLN was down-regulated in rabbit coronary heart disease model. In addition, we found that the related-markers of CHD such as TC (total cholesterol), TG (triglyceride), and LDLC (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol) in the model group were significantly increased than that in the control group. And compared with the model group, miR-143-3p inhibitor significantly reduced TC, TG, LDLC expression, while miR-143-3p mimic further increased the expression of TC, TG, and LDLC. We next found that miR-143-3p mimic promoted cell viability and migration of vascular smooth muscle cells, inhibited apoptosis; and these changes were reversed by KLLN-plasmid. And miR-143-3p inhibitor had the counter effects. Our study provided a new target for the treatment of CHD and deserves further study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312371	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312371	heart+disease
Scientific reports	Arterial tissue transcriptional profiles associate with tissue remodeling and cardiovascular phenotype in children with end-stage kidney disease.	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) greatly increases the risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, molecular mechanisms underlying CKD-induced arterial remodeling are largely unknown. We performed a systematic analysis of arterial biopsies from children with stage 5 predialysis CKD participating in the Cardiovascular Comorbidity in Children with Chronic Kidney Disease (4 C) study. For comparison, we studied biopsies from children without CKD, coronary bypass vessels from adults with atherosclerotic coronary heart disease without CKD and aortic sections of subtotally nephrectomized rats. In pediatric CKD patients, gene expression was correlated to the cardiovascular phenotype assessed by surrogate end-points. The arterial calcium content correlated with the intima-media thickness (IMT) of biopsied vessels from pediatric CKD patients, was markedly increased compared to biopsies from children without CKD and comparable to adult coronary bypass patients. Significant transcriptional changes included ECM components, pro-calcifying factors, and physiological calcification inhibitors; most were highly accordant with changes observed in adults with atherosclerosis and in uremic rats. Individual gene expression levels were significantly associated with the left ventricular mass index and carotid intima media thickness. Thus, inflammatory processes (TNF, IL-10), calcification inhibitors (CA2), the Wnt-pathway (FGF-2) and foremost, ECM components (HMGA1, VNN1, VCAN), impact pathobiological responses in arteries from children with CKD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311999	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311999	heart+disease
The Journal of biological chemistry	The tumor suppressor RASSF1A modulates inflammation and injury in the reperfused murine myocardium.	Inflammation is a central feature of cardiovascular disease including myocardial infarction and heart failure. Reperfusion of the ischemic myocardium triggers a complex inflammatory response that can exacerbate injury and worsen heart function, as well as prevent myocardial rupture and mediate wound healing. Therefore, a more complete understanding of this process could contribute to interventions that properly balance inflammatory responses for improved outcomes.  In this study, we leveraged several approaches including global and regional ischemia/reperfusion (I/R), genetically modified mice, and primary cell culture, to investigate the cell type specific function of the tumor suppressor Ras association domain family member 1 isoform A (RASSF1A) in cardiac inflammation. Our results revealed that genetic inhibition of RASSF1A in cardiomyocytes affords cardioprotection, whereas myeloid-specific deletion of RASSF1A exacerbates inflammation and injury caused by I/R in mice. Cell-based studies revealed that RASSF1A negatively regulates NF-kB and thereby attenuates inflammatory cytokine expression. These findings indicate that myeloid RASSF1A antagonizes I/R-induced myocardial inflammation and suggest that RASSF1A may be a promising target in immunomodulatory therapy for the management of acute heart injury.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311858	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311858	heart+disease
Enfermeria clinica	Knowledge, awareness, and perception of coronary heart disease (CHD) among residents in Kuantan, Pahang, Malaysia.	These study findings indicated that public health promotion and intervention are needed in Kuantan, Pahang regards to knowledge and awareness of CHD symptoms and risk factors.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31311745	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311745	heart+disease
Journal of the American Heart Association	Deletion of the Cardiomyocyte Glucocorticoid Receptor Leads to Sexually Dimorphic Changes in Cardiac Gene Expression and Progression to Heart Failure.	Background The contribution of glucocorticoids to sexual dimorphism in the heart is essentially unknown. Therefore, we sought to determine the sexually dimorphic actions of glucocorticoid signaling in cardiac function and gene expression. To accomplish this goal, we conducted studies on mice lacking glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in cardiomyocytes (cardioGRKO mouse model). Methods and Results Deletion of cardiomyocyte GR leads to an increase in mortality because of the development of spontaneous cardiac pathology in both male and female mice; however, females are more resistant to GR signaling inactivation in the heart. Male cardioGRKO mice had a median survival age of 6 months. In contrast, females had a median survival age of 10 months. Transthoracic echocardiography data showed phenotypic differences between male and female cardioGRKO hearts. By 3 months of age, male cardioGRKO mice exhibited left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Conversely, no significant functional deficits were observed in female cardioGRKO mice at the same time point. Functional sensitivity of male hearts to the loss of cardiomyocyte GR was reversed following gonadectomy. RNA-Seq analysis showed that deleting GR in the male hearts leads to a more profound dysregulation in the expression of genes implicated in heart rate regulation (calcium handling). In agreement with these gene expression data, cardiomyocytes isolated from male cardioGRKO hearts displayed altered intracellular calcium responses. In contrast, female GR-deficient cardiomyocytes presented a response comparable with controls. Conclusions These data suggest that GR regulates calcium responses in a sex-biased manner, leading to sexually distinct responses to stress in male and female mice hearts, which may contribute to sex differences in heart disease, including the development of ventricular arrhythmias that contribute to heart failure and sudden death.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311395	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311395	heart+disease
Journal of health psychology	Mental health treatment to assist in heart disease improved outcomes.	In this commentary, we highlight key scientific advancements in the area of depression and heart disease dual diagnosis, to explore how new approaches can be integrated from a mental health counseling perspective. The incorporation of mental health counseling is suggested as an aid in the treatment of patients with a cardiac disease diagnosis. However, there is no structured awareness or training program for mental health counselors to associate depression with heart disease since this involves both a high level of interdisciplinary research and collaboration with existing healthcare providers. Alongside rampant calls for changes in our modern healthcare system, new holistic practices may emerge, placing mental health services at the forefront to assist in improving cardiac disease patient outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311333	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311333	heart+disease
Annals of rehabilitation medicine	Clinical Practice Guideline for Cardiac Rehabilitation in Korea.	CR involves a more cost-effective use of healthcare resources relative to that of general treatments, and the exercise component of CR lowers cardiovascular mortality and readmission rates, regardless of the type of coronary heart disease and type and setting of CR. Individualized CR programs should be considered together with various factors, including differences in heart function and lifestyle, and doing so will boost participation and adherence with the CR program, ultimately meeting the final goals of the program, namely reducing the recurrence of myocardial infarction and mortality rates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31311260	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311260	heart+disease
Medicina (Kaunas, Lithuania)	Ductus Venosus Agenesis as a Marker of Pallister-Killian Syndrome.	The ductus venosus (DV) is a shunt that allows the direct flow of well-oxygenated blood from the umbilical vein (UV) to the coronary and cerebral circulation through the foramen ovale. Its agenesis has been associated with chromosomal abnormalities and rare genetic syndromes, structural defects, intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and even antepartum fetal demise. Pallister-Killian Syndrome (PKS) is a rare sporadic disorder with specific tissue mosaic distribution of an extra 12p isochromosome (i(12p)). Its main clinical features are moderate to severe intellectual disability/neuromotor delay, skin pigmentation abnormalities, typical facial appearance, variable association with multiple congenital malformations and epilepsy. Though prenatal findings (including congenital diaphragmatic hernia, ventriculomegaly, congenital heart disease, polyhydramnios, and rhizomelic shortening) have been described in literature, prenatal diagnosis is difficult as there are no associated identification signs no distinctive or pathognomonic signs, and some of these malformations are hard to identify prenatally. The tissue mosaicism linked to this syndrome and the decrease of the abnormal clone carrier of the i(p12) after successive trypsinizations of cultured cells makes the diagnosis even more challenging. We present the case of a 27.5 weeks pregnant woman with a fetal ductus venosus agenesis (DVA) as the main guide marker. To our knowledge this is the first case published in literature reporting a DVA as a guide sign to diagnose a complex condition as Pallister-Killian syndrome. We also underscore the key role of new genetic techniques as microarrays to avoid misdiagnosis when only a subtle sonographic sign is present in complex conditions like this.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Switzerland	31311125	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311125	heart+disease
Acta medica Lituanica	Angina pectoris and sinus of Valsalva aneurysm: a rare manifestation of an uncommon disease.	SantraukaValsalva sinuso aneurizma yra retai diagnozuojama aortos liga. Straipsnyje aprašomas 57 metų pacientės, kuriai diagnozuota kairiojo Valsalva sinuso aneurizmos sukelta krūtinės angina, klinikinis atvejis. Analizuojama klinikinė situacija yra sudėtinga ir išskirtinė, kadangi pacientei diagnozuota tiek Valsalva sinuso aneurizma, tiek aortos koarktacija. Liga pasireiškė jai nebūdingais simptomais ir sukėlė miokardo išemiją. Straipsnyje pateikiama naujausių mokslinių įrodymų ir įžvalgų analizė.	2018	eng	Journal Article	Lithuania	31308829	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308829	heart+disease
Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology	Part I - Ectoparasites: Scabies.	Scabies is an ectoparasitic dermatosis caused by Sarcoptes scabiei var. hominis and is a public health issue in all countries regardless of socioeconomic status. In high-income countries, delays in diagnosis can lead to institutional outbreaks while in low- and middle-income countries, poor access to healthcare contributes to disease undertreatment and long-term systemic sequelae. With scabies now recognized as a neglected tropical disease by the World Health Organization, increased awareness and systematic efforts are addressing gaps in diagnosis and treatment that impede scabies control. This review summarizes available data and provides an update on scabies epidemiology, clinical features, diagnosis, management, and public health considerations.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31310840	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310840	heart+disease
American journal of obstetrics and gynecology	Planned vaginal delivery and cardiovascular morbidity in pregnant women with heart disease.	These findings suggest that cesarean delivery does not reduce adverse cardiovascular outcomes and lend support to a planned vaginal birth for the majority of women with CVD including those with high-risk disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310750	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310750	heart+disease
Brazilian journal of cardiovascular surgery	Comparative Analysis of Myocardial Protection with HTK Solution and Hypothermic Hyperkalemic Blood Solution in the Correction of Acyanogenic Congenital Cardiopathies - A Randomized Study.	We conclude that in patients with acyanotic congenital cardiopathies submitted to total surgical correction, mean aortic clamping time around one hour, and cardiopulmonary bypass with moderate hypothermia, the HTK crystalloid cardioplegic solution offers the same myocardial protection as the cold-blood hyperkalemic cardioplegic solution analyzed, according to the variables considered in our study model.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31310464	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310464	heart+disease
Psychiatric services (Washington, D.C.)	Clinical Care Quality Among Veterans Health Administration Patients With Mental Illness Following Medical Home Implementation.	Contrary to earlier reports of lower-quality care, patients with and without mental illness had similar preventive and chronic disease management care quality following medical home implementation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310189	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310189	heart+disease
Environmental science & technology	Bisphenol A, chlorinated derivatives of Bisphenol A and occurrence of myocardial infarction in patients with type 2 diabetes: nested case-control studies in two European cohorts.	A positive association between Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure and coronary heart disease has been shown, but not in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). During the treatment of drinking water, chlorination leads to the formation of chlorinated derivatives of Bisphenol A (ClxBPA), that have higher estrogenic activity than BPA. No evidence exists for a relationship between exposure to ClxBPA and myocardial infarction in patients with T2D. The objective of this study was to evaluate the relationship between exposure to BPA, ClxBPA and the occurrence of myocardial infarction (MI) in patients with T2D. Two nested case-control studies in two independent European cohorts were performed. Each case with incident MI during follow-up was matched to one control on age, sex and personal cardiovascular history in the same cohort. Association between baseline urine concentrations of BPA and of ClxBPA and incident MI was determined. Exposure to BPA was 31% in the ESTHER cohort and 18% in the SURDIAGENE cohort. In a meta-analysis of the two studies, occurrence of MI was significantly associated with urine BPA detection: adjusted OR=1.97 (1.05; 3.70), p=0.04. Exposure to ClxBPA significantly differed in the SURDIAGENE and ESTHER studies: 24% and 8%, respectively (p=0.0003). It was very strongly associated with MI in the SURDIAGENE cohort with an adjusted odds ratio (OR) of 14.15 (95% confidence interval: 2.77 - 72.40) but this association was not replicated in the ESTHER study: adjusted OR: 0.17 (0.02 to 1.23). Whether these results may be explained by different water chlorination processes in France and Germany, resulting in different ClxBPA exposure levels, requires further investigation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310111	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310111	heart+disease
The British journal of nutrition	Long-term vitamin D and high-dose n-3 fatty acids' supplementation improve markers of cardiometabolic risk in type 2 diabetic patients with CHD.	This study was performed to evaluate the effects of vitamin D and n-3 fatty acids' co-supplementation on markers of cardiometabolic risk in diabetic patients with CHD. This randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial was conducted among sixty-one vitamin D-deficient diabetic patients with CHD. At baseline, the range of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels in study participants was 6·3-19·9 ng/ml. Subjects were randomly assigned into two groups either taking 50 000 IU vitamin D supplements every 2 weeks plus 2× 1000 mg/d n-3 fatty acids from flaxseed oil (n 30) or placebo (n 31) for 6 months. Vitamin D and n-3 fatty acids' co-supplementation significantly reduced mean (P = 0·01) and maximum levels of left carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) (P = 0·004), and mean (P = 0·02) and maximum levels of right CIMT (P = 0·003) compared with the placebo. In addition, co-supplementation led to a significant reduction in fasting plasma glucose (β -0·40 mmol/l; 95 % CI -0·77, -0·03; P = 0·03), insulin (β -1·66 μIU/ml; 95 % CI -2·43, -0·89; P &lt; 0·001), insulin resistance (β -0·49; 95 % CI -0·72, -0·25; P &lt; 0·001) and LDL-cholesterol (β -0·21 mmol/l; 95 % CI -0·41, -0·01; P = 0·04), and a significant increase in insulin sensitivity (β +0·008; 95 % CI 0·004, 0·01; P = 0·001) and HDL-cholesterol (β +0·09 mmol/l; 95 % CI 0·01, 0·17; P = 0·02) compared with the placebo. Additionally, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (β -1·56 mg/l; 95 % CI -2·65, -0·48; P = 0·005) was reduced in the supplemented group compared with the placebo group. Overall, vitamin D and n-3 fatty acids' co-supplementation had beneficial effects on markers of cardiometabolic risk.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309919	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309919	heart+disease
Parasite immunology	Myocardial fibrosis in chagas disease and molecules related to fibrosis.	Chronic Chagas Cardiomyopathy (CCC) is responsible for the disease's greater morbidity and poor prognosis. Although understanding the pathophysiology of CCC and the fundamentals of its clinical management derives from research related to other carmyopathies there are peculiarities that distinguish CCC from the others. CCC is the most fibrous heart disease and its myocardial involvement is important as it disorganizes or disrupts the extracellular matrix, creating an environment conducive to the formation of arrhythmogenic foci. It is also considered the most arrhythmogenic of the known heart diseases, giving rise to complex arrhythmias, usually associated with varying degrees of stimulus conduction disorders. The central proposal of this review is to describe a possible association between the distribution and degree of myocardial fibrosis and cardiac arrhythmogenicity in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy, drawing attention to the importance of noninvasive biomarkers for the quantification of myocardial fibrosis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309590	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309590	heart+disease
Current treatment options in cardiovascular medicine	Conceptualizing the Risks of Coronary Heart Disease and Heart Failure Among People Aging with HIV: Sex-Specific Considerations.	Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is emerging as a major threat to healthy aging among people with HIV (PHIV). PHIV face heightened risks for coronary heart disease (CHD)/myocardial infarction (MI) and heart failure (HF), fueled by systemic immune activation and by metabolic dysregulation. Women with HIV (WHIV) evidence unique patterns of vascular and myocardial pathology as compared to men with HIV (MHIV). These patterns include a predilection to microvascular dysfunction and type II MI, as well as a penchant for diastolic dysfunction and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). Investigations are underway to understand how advanced reproductive aging among WHIV influences systemic immune activation and metabolic dysregulation en route to these CVD phenotypes. A key goal is to identify targeted CVD prevention strategies relevant to WHIV, particularly as efficacious treatment approaches to type II MI and HFpEF are lacking.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31309321	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309321	heart+disease
Pediatric cardiology	Oral Triiodothyronine Supplementation Decreases Low Cardiac Output Syndrome After Pediatric Cardiac Surgery.	The oral triiodothyronine for infants and children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (OTICC) trial showed that Triiodothyronine (T3) supplementation improved hemodynamic and clinical outcome parameters. We tested the validity of low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS), derived using clinical parameters and laboratory data, by comparing the LCOS diagnosis with objective parameters commonly measured in a cardiac intensive care unit (CCU) setting. OTICC, a randomized, placebo-controlled trial included children younger than 3 years with an Aristotle score between 6 and 9. We used the existing trial data set to compare the LCOS diagnosis with echocardiographic hemodynamic parameters. Additionally, we determined if LCOS, prospectively assigned during a clinical trial, served as an early predictor of clinical outcomes. All LCOS subjects at 6 and 12 h after cross-clamp release later showed significantly lower pulse pressure, stroke volume and cardiac output, and higher systemic vascular resistance. These LCOS patients also had significantly longer time to extubation (TTE) and higher mortality rate. LCOS incidence was significantly lower in the T3 treatment group [n = 86 vs. 66, respectively, p < 0.001; OR (95% CI) 0.43 (0.36-0.52)] particularly at 6 h. Also, LCOS patients in the placebo group had significantly lower FT3 serum levels over time. These analyses confirm that early clinically defined LCOS successfully predicts cardiac dysfunction determined later by objective hemodynamic echocardiographic parameters. Furthermore, early LCOS significantly impacts TTE and mortality. Finally, the data support prior clinical trial data, showing that oral T3 supplementation decreases early LCOS in concordance with reducing TTE.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309235	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309235	heart+disease
JRSM cardiovascular disease	Performance of EuroSCORE II and logistic EuroSCORE in Bangladeshi population undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery: A prospective cohort study.	EuroSCORE has an important role in predicting the early, as well as late, postoperative outcomes following coronary artery bypass surgery. However, the performance of EuroSCORE II is significantly better than the original logistic EuroSCORE in predicting postoperative morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary artery bypass graft surgery among Bangladeshi patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308937	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308937	heart+disease
Therapeutics and clinical risk management	Urinary orosomucoid: a new marker of cardiovascular risk in psoriatic patients?	There seems to be a connection between urinary ORM and cardiovascular risk. U-ORM and u-ORM/u-CREAT ratio could be used as an indicator of low-grade inflammation in mild and moderate psoriasis. However, it is the 10-year follow-up of cardiovascular events that will determine the usefulness of this biomarker panel.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308681	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308681	heart+disease
NPJ primary care respiratory medicine	Incidence of type II diabetes in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a nested case-control study.	We investigated the incidence of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) among people with COPD and whether exposure to inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and exacerbation status was associated with T2DM. This descriptive cohort study used primary care data from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). The patient cohort included people with a diagnosis of COPD and previous smoking history registered at a CPRD practice between January 2010 and December 2016. We determined incidence rates by age, gender and deprivation. Using a nested case-control design-where cases and controls are drawn from the cohort population-we matched 1:5 with patients by age, gender and GP practice and estimated odds of T2DM using logistic regression (adjusting for smoking status, deprivation, BMI, hypertension, coronary heart disease and heart failure). We identified 220,971 COPD patients; mean age at COPD diagnosis was 66 years (SD 12) and 54% were male. The incidence rate of T2DM in COPD patients was 1.26 per 100 patient years (95% CI: 1.24-1.28) and was higher among men (1.32 vs 1.18 among women). The adjusted odds ratio for T2DM was 1.47 (95% CI: 1.36-1.60) among frequent exacerbators (≥2 treated exacerbations per year) compared to infrequent exacerbators and the odds ratio for patients receiving high-dose ICS (>800 mcg budesonide equivalent dose) was 1.73 (95% CI 1.65-1.82) compared to patients receiving no ICS therapy. Incidence of T2DM among COPD patients is high and exposure to ICS and frequent exacerbations are associated with a higher risk of T2DM among patients with COPD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308364	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308364	heart+disease
Arerugi = [Allergy]	[TWO CASES OF USING DUPILUMAB FOR REFRACTORY ATOPIC DERMATITIS WHO HAD HISTORIES OF BACTEREMIA AND UNDERLYING CONGENITAL HEART DISEASE].	Defects in the skin's barrier function are known to make it more likely for skin and soft tissue infection to occur in association with atopic dermatitis. These secondary infections sometimes develop into systemic infections such as bacteremia. Here, we report on our use of anti-IL-4/13 monoclonal antibody (dupilumab) on two cases with atopic dermatitis that was refractory to conventional management techniques and who had a history of serious infection (bacteremia and associated sternal osteomyelitis, infective endocarditis) caused by Staphylococcus aureus. Both cases had underlying congenital heart disease. The dermatological symptoms of both cases showed marked improvement at 16 weeks after the start of dupilumab use. The use of dupilumab on atopic dermatitis may lead to less risk of infection of skin and soft tissues deveroping serious infections due to an underlying congenital disease. When determining the treatment strategy, the cooperation of specialists in a variety of fields as well as the primary care physician was important.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308337	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308337	heart+disease
Clinical medicine (London, England)	Lessons of the month 2: A forgotten cause of transient T-wave inversion.	A 19-year-old patient presented with severe chest pain, which is not typical for cardiac angina. However, his smoking history and the strong family history of ischaemic heart disease coupled with evidence of progressive T-wave changes on his electrocardiogram (ECG) caused dilemma in deciding further management. His blood tests were normal apart from hypophosphataemia, and he had two negative troponin results. His arterial blood gases showed respiratory alkalosis. He was given analgesia for a diagnosis of musculoskeletal chest pain and the next morning his ECG, arterial blood gases and phosphate levels all normalised. He had a normal echocardiogram and was reviewed by the cardiologist who diagnosed musculoskeletal chest pain which led to distress and hyperventilation causing hypophosphataemia and transient T-wave inversion. This case is a reminder of an under-recognised physiological phenomenon involving the cardiac conduction during hyperventilation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308117	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308117	heart+disease
International journal of cardiology	Non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) for thromboembolic prevention, are they safe in congenital heart disease? Results of a worldwide study.	Initial results from our worldwide prospective study suggest that NOACs are safe and may be effective for thromboembolic prevention in adults with heterogeneous forms of congenital heart disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307847	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307847	heart+disease
Environmental health : a global access science source	Associations between short-term exposure to gaseous pollutants and pulmonary heart disease-related mortality among elderly people in Chengdu, China.	Increased concentrations of ambient SO	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307485	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307485	heart+disease
BMC health services research	PRIMEtime CE: a multistate life table model for estimating the cost-effectiveness of interventions affecting diet and physical activity.	This paper describes PRIMEtime CE and highlights its main strengths and limitations. The model can be used to compare any number of public policies affecting diet and physical activity, allowing decision makers to understand how they can maximise population health with limited financial resources.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307442	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307442	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Right Ventricular Dominance Is Associated With Inferior Outcomes After the Extracardiac Fontan.	In this contemporary, single-center cohort of EC Fontan patients, RVD was associated with inferior outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307314	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307314	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Heart Transplantation in a Fontan Patient Using a Hepatitis C-Positive Donor.	A 38-year-old female with tricuspid atresia and normally related great arteries, initially palliated with Björk modified Fontan, and ultimately converted to extracardiac conduit Fontan, with a history of ventricular tachycardia and hepatitis C virus (HCV) treated with sofosbuvir/ledipasvir, was referred to our center for consideration of combined heart and liver transplantation. The patient's blood group was O with panel reactive antibodies of 52%. She consented to consideration of HCV-positive donors. Fifteen days later, an HCV-positive donor was identified, and she underwent heart transplantation with pulmonary artery reconstruction performed jointly by adult and pediatric transplant surgeons. To our knowledge, this the first time an HCV-positive donor heart has been to transplant an adult with congenital heart disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307313	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307313	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Developing High Medical Technology, a Challenge for Developing Countries: The Percutaneous Closure of Atrial Septal Defects Using Nit-Occlud ASD-R: Early and Mid-term Results.	The Nit-Occlud ASD-R device is safe and effective with very good closure rates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307309	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307309	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Ten Years of Data Verification: The Society of Thoracic Surgeons Congenital Heart Surgery Database Audits.	The STS CHSD audit is a highly structured and reproducible process. The most recently completed audit documents a very high level of completeness and accuracy of data variables, particularly those most germane to outcomes measurement.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307308	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307308	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	The Association Between Cardiac Biomarker NT-proBNP and 30-Day Readmission or Mortality After Pediatric Congenital Heart Surgery.	In our two cohorts, preoperative and postoperative values of NT-proBNP were not significantly associated with readmission or mortality following pediatric congenital heart surgery. These findings will inform future studies evaluating multimarker risk assessment models in the pediatric population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307305	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307305	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Proceedings From the 3rd Symposium of the World Database for Pediatric and Congenital Heart Surgery.	The World Database for Pediatric and Congenital Heart Surgery was created to provide a resource for centers to be able to perform complex outcomes analyses of children undergoing repair of a congenital heart defect. In just under two years, the World Society for Pediatric and Congenital Heart Surgery (WSPCHS) has amassed over 13,000 procedures from 55 centers into the database. This Proceedings of the 3rd World Database Symposium held at the 6th Scientific Meeting of the WSPCHS summarizes the presentations of international experts in the fields of outcomes analysis and care of children with congenital heart surgery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307301	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307301	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Right Ventricular Morphology Is Associated With Mortality at All Stages of Single Ventricle Palliation.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307298	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307298	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Staged Biventricular Repair After Hybrid Procedure in High-Risk Neonates and Infants.	Staged biventricular repair with the initial hybrid procedure may be a feasible and safe alternative in high-risk neonates and early infants. Hybrid intervention may provide the development of cardiac structures in time and a better evaluation for the possibility of biventricular repair in borderline patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307296	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307296	heart+disease
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Association Between Postoperative Dexmedetomidine Use and Arrhythmias in Infants After Cardiac Surgery.	High-risk infants had decreased incidence of tachyarrhythmias when receiving dexmedetomidine, though this was not significant after accounting for baseline differences between groups.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307294	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307294	heart+disease
Journal of the American Heart Association	Erratum: Twenty-Year Predictors of Peripheral Arterial Disease Compared With Coronary Heart Disease in the Scottish Heart Health Extended Cohort (SHHEC).	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.117.005967.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	England	31305790	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305790	heart+disease
Obstetric medicine	CORRIGENDUM to A case of successfully managed pregnancy in a patient with complex cyanotic congenital heart disease.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1177/1753495X16678487.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	England	31305767	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305767	heart+disease
Medicine	Erratum: Association between peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha, delta, and gamma polymorphisms and risk of coronary heart disease: A case-control study and meta-analysis: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000004299.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305657	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305657	heart+disease
Psychoneuroendocrinology	Allostatic load in the association of depressive symptoms with incident coronary heart disease: The Jackson Heart Study.	African Americans are at heightened risk for coronary heart disease (CHD), with biologic pathways poorly understood. We examined the role of allostatic load (AL) in the association of depressive symptoms with incident CHD among 2,670 African American men and women in the prospective Jackson Heart Study. Depressive symptoms were quantified using the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). Incident CHD was ascertained by self-report, death certificate survey, and adjudicated medical record surveillance. Baseline AL was quantified using biologic parameters of metabolic, cardiovascular, immune, and neuroendocrine subsystems and as a combined meta-factor. Sequential models adjusted for demographic, socioeconomic, and behavioral covariates, stratified to examine differences by sex. Greater depressive symptomatology was associated with greater metabolic, cardiovascular, and immune AL (p-values≤0.036) and AL meta-factor z-scores (p = 0.007), with findings driven by observations among females. Each 1-point increase in baseline depressive symptomatology, and 1-SD increase in metabolic AL, neuroendocrine AL, and AL meta-factor z-scores was associated with 3.3%, 88%, 39%, and 130% increases in CHD risk, respectively (p-values <0.001). Neuroendocrine AL and AL meta-factor scores predicted incident CHD among males but not females in stratified analyses. Metabolic AL partially mediated the association of depressive symptoms with incident CHD (5.79% mediation, p = 0.044), a finding present among females (p = 0.016) but not males (p = 0.840). Among African American adults, we present novel findings of an association between depressive symptomatology and incident CHD, partially mediated by metabolic AL. These findings appear to be unique to females, an important consideration in the design of targeted interventions for CHD prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307010	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307010	heart+disease
Seminars in thoracic and cardiovascular surgery	Brain development of children with single ventricle physiology or transposition of the great arteries: A longitudinal observation study.	Despite the current best practices, persistently lower TBV was seen in SV patients until 9 years of age. For both the SV and TGA groups, TBV at 3 years was a strong predictor of TBV at 9 years. Since there was a correlation between TBV and IQ at 9 years, identification of factors that affect brain growth until 3 years will be imperative to improve patients' cognitive function at school age.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306764	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306764	heart+disease
Acta psychiatrica Scandinavica	The association between depressive mood and ischemic heart disease: a twin study.	Genetic factors and early life environment do not seem to explain the association between depressive mood and ischemic heart disease. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306494	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306494	heart+disease
PloS one	Development of a predictive score for potentially avoidable hospital readmissions for general internal medicine patients.	This study identified routinely-available factors that were significantly associated with PAR. A predictive score was derived and internally validated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306461	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306461	heart+disease
Journal of cardiovascular pharmacology	Correlation of Inhaled Long-acting Bronchodilators with Adverse Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Stable COPD: A Bayesian Network Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.	A majority of existing studies have focused on the efficacy of inhaled long-acting bronchodilators (ILABs), such as long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) and long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs), and LABAs combined with LAMAs in treating chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The current meta-analysis aimed to investigate the correlation of ILABs with specific cardiovascular adverse events (CAEs). Five electronic databases, including PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, Scopus and Web of Science, were systematically retrieved. Finally, 16 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were enrolled into the current meta-analysis. Typically, the efficacy of 3 major classes of drugs (LABAs, LAMAs, as well as LABAs combined with LAMAs), as well as 7 specific drugs (including Formoterol, Glycopyrrolate, Indacaterol, Olodaterol, Salmeterol, Tiotropium, and Vilanterol) for 4 CAEs, including myocardial infarction (MI), cardiac failure (CF), ischemic heart disease (IHD) and stroke in stable COPD patients, was examined. All the pooled results were analyzed through the odds ratios (ORs) with the corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs). The direct meta-analysis results suggested that LABAs could increase the risk of CF in patients with stable COPD compared with placebo controls (OR 1.70, 95%CI 1.00-2.90). In addition, network meta-analysis results indicated that LAMAs combined with LABAs would result in an increased risk of CF in patients with stable COPD (OR 2.31, 95%CI 1.10-5.09). According to the ILABs specific drug analysis, Formoterol might potentially have protective effects on IHD compared with placebo controls (OR 0.45, 95%CI 0.18-1.00). In conclusion, among these three kinds of ILABs, including LAMAs, LABAs, and LABAs /LAMAs, for stable COPD patients, LAMAs and LABAs are associated with the least possibility to induce MI and stroke, respectively. However, the application of LABAs will probably increase the risk of CF, they should be used with caution for stable COPD patients with CF. In addition, in specific-drug analysis, the use of formoterol can reduce the risk of treatment-related IHD. Nevertheless, more studies on different drug doses are needed in the future to further validate this conclusion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306366	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306366	heart+disease
Medicine	Factors affecting the occurrence of gastrointestinal bleeding in acute ischemic stroke patients.	Gastrointestinal bleeding (GIB) is a common complication that occurs after stroke, and GIB may negatively affect patient prognosis. In this study, we aimed to examine:(1) the risk factors of GIB in acute cerebral infarction patients;(2) association between GIB and 1-year mortality in patients with acute cerebral infarction.Patients with acute cerebral infarction were divided into 2 groups based on the occurrence of GIB during acute stroke stage. Patient characteristics, clinical presentation, stroke risk factors, comorbidities, laboratory data, medication, and outcomes were investigated to analyze the associations between the variables and the probability of having GIB. In addition, patients in the study were matched individually by age, gender. A 1:1 matched case-control method and conditional logistic regression models for single and multiple factors were used to assess the risk factors of GIB in acute cerebral infarction patients.Clinical data of patients with acute cerebral infarction were reviewed and analyzed during the years 2015 and 2016. Finally, 1662 patients with acute cerebral infarction were included in this study, of whom 139 (8.5%) patients had GIB at admission. Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that the independent risk factors for GIB in patients with acute cerebral infarction were advanced age (OR = 1.030, P = .009), low Glasgow Coma Scale (GSC) score (OR = 0.850, P = .014), infection (OR = 4.693, P < .001), high NIHSS score (OR = 1.114, P = .001), and posterior circulation infarction (OR = 4.981, P = .010). The case-control study ultimately included 136 case-control pairs. Stepwise conditional regression analyses revealed that the independent risk factors for GIB in patients with acute cerebral infarction were low Glasgow Coma Scale (GSC) score (RR = 0.645, P = .011), infection (RR = 15.326, P = .001), and posterior circulation infarction (RR = 6.129, P = .045). The group with GIB had a higher rate of mortality and disability level (mRS grade ≥ 4) than the group without GIB (P < .001) within 1 year after stroke. In addition, independent risk factors of death within 1 year after stroke in patients were GIB (OR = 6.096, P < .001), infection (OR = 4.493, P < .001), mRS grade ≥ 4 (OR = 4.129, P < .001), and coronary heart disease (OR = 3.718, P = .001).GIB is a common complication after ischemic stroke. These identified factors may help clinicians identify risks of GIB before it develops. GIB is associated with increased risk of 1-year mortality and poor functional outcome in acute cerebral infarction patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305417	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305417	heart+disease
Pediatric critical care medicine : a journal of the Society of Critical Care Medicine and the World Federation of Pediatric Intensive and Critical Care Societies	Bioactive Oxylipins in Infants and Children With Congenital Heart Disease Undergoing Pediatric Cardiopulmonary Bypass.	In low-risk pediatric patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass, 9:13-hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid was associated with changes in plasma hemoglobin, vasoactive-inotropic score, and WBC count, and may be a risk factor for high vasoactive-inotropic score, indicating possible inflammatory and vasoactive effects. Further studies are warranted to delineate the role of hydroxyoctadecadienoic acids and plasma hemoglobin in cardiopulmonary bypass-related dysfunction and to explore hydroxyoctadecadienoic acid production as a potential therapeutic target.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305328	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305328	heart+disease
Journal of clinical gastroenterology	CHD is Associated With Higher Grades of NAFLD Predicted by Liver Stiffness.	High-grade NAFLD is more present in symptomatic CHD. The higher degree of liver stiffness in patients with NAFLD, the higher risk of CHD in these NAFLD patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305280	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305280	heart+disease
Biomarkers : biochemical indicators of exposure, response, and susceptibility to chemicals	Association of galectin-3 with changes in left ventricular function in recent-onset dilated cardiomyopathy.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305163	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305163	heart+disease
Cardiology in the young	Accuracy of a portable pulse oximeter in monitoring hypoxemic infants with cyanotic heart disease.	Both devices tended to overestimate oxygen saturation in this patient population when compared to the gold standard, co-oximetry. The study device is at least as accurate as the hospital device and offers the advantage of being more portable with Bluetooth technology that allows reliable, efficient data transmission. Currently FDA-approved, smaller portable pulse oximeters can be considered for use in home monitoring programmes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304897	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304897	heart+disease
Journal of clinical hypertension (Greenwich, Conn.)	Association of interarm blood pressure difference with cardio-cerebral vascular disease: A community-based, cross-sectional study.	Interarm blood pressure difference (IAD) is a risk factor for peripheral artery disease and cardio-cerebral vascular disease (CCVD). The current study examines the association of IAD with stroke and coronary heart disease in a Chinese community. A cross-sectional study was conducted in Pudong New Area in Shanghai, China. A total of 10 657 residents aged 15 years and older were randomly selected through three-stage sampling. Volunteers had systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) measured in both arms at recruitment, and IAD was defined in both arms as the absolute difference in BP. Medical records of study participants were reviewed by investigators to confirm measurements. Logistic regression models were used to assess the association between systolic interarm blood pressure difference (sIAD) and diastolic interarm blood pressure difference (dIAD) with stroke and coronary heart disease. Compared with dIAD <5 mm Hg, the multivariate adjusted odds ratio (OR) of stroke prevalence was 1.357 (95% CI 0.725-2.542, P = 0.034) for dIAD ≥20 mm Hg and 1.702 (95% CI1.025-2.828, P = 0.040) for dIAD between 15 and 19 mm Hg, and the multivariate adjusted OR of coronary heart disease prevalence was 1.726 (95% CI 1.093-2.726, P = 0.019) for dIAD ≥20 mm Hg and 1.498 (95% CI 0.993-2.261, P = 0.044) for dIAD between 15 and 19 mm Hg. The relationship between cardio-cerebral vascular disease and dIAD was significant in a Chinese community population. Further cohort studies are needed to investigate the association of different levels of IAD with the incidence of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases and subsequent mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304684	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304684	heart+disease
NPJ digital medicine	Impact of predictive medicine on therapeutic decision making: a randomized controlled trial in congenital heart disease.	Computational modelling has made significant progress towards clinical application in recent years. In addition to providing detailed diagnostic data, these methods have the potential to simulate patient-specific interventions and to predict their outcome. Our objective was to evaluate to which extent patient-specific modelling influences treatment decisions in coarctation of the aorta (CoA), a common congenital heart disease. We selected three cases with CoA, two of which had borderline indications for intervention according to current clinical guidelines. The third case was not indicated for intervention according to guidelines. For each case, we generated two separate datasets. First dataset included conventional diagnostic parameters (echocardiography and magnetic resonance imaging). In the second, we added modelled parameters (pressure fields). For the two cases with borderline indications for intervention, the second dataset also included pressure fields after virtual stenting simulations. All parameters were computed by modelling methods that were previously validated. In an online-administered, invitation-only survey, we randomized 178 paediatric cardiologists to view either conventional (control) or add-on modelling (experimental) datasets. Primary endpoint was the proportion of participants recommending different therapeutic options: (1) surgery or catheter lab (collectively, "intervention") or (2) no intervention (follow-up with or without medication). Availability of data from computational predictive modelling influenced therapeutic decision making in two of three cases. There was a statistically significant association between group assignment and the recommendation of an intervention for one borderline case and one non-borderline case: 94.3% vs. 72.2% (RR: 1.31, 95% CI: 1.14-1.50, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304365	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304365	heart+disease
NPJ digital medicine	Fast and accurate medication identification.	Much of the AI work in healthcare is focused around disease prediction in clinical settings, which is an important application that has yet to deliver in earnest. However, there are other fundamental aspects like helping patients and care teams interact and communicate in efficient and meaningful ways, which could deliver quadruple-aim improvements. After heart disease and cancer, preventable medical errors are the third leading cause of death in the United States. The largest subset of medical errors is medication error. Providing the right treatment plan for patients includes knowledge about their current medications and drug allergies, an often challenging task. The widespread growth of prescribing and consuming medications has increased the need for applications that support medication reconciliation. We show a deep-learning application that can help reduce avoidable errors with their attendant risk, i.e., correctly identifying prescription medication, which is currently a tedious and error-prone task. We demonstrate prescription-pill identification from mobile images in the NIH NLM Pill Image Recognition Challenge dataset. Our application recognizes the correct pill within the top-5 results at 94% accuracy, which compares favorably to the original competition winner at 83.3% for top-5 under comparable, though not identical configurations. The Institute of Medicine claims that better use of information technology can be an important step in reducing medication errors. Therefore, we believe that a more immediate impact of AI in healthcare will occur with a seamless integration of AI into clinical workflows, readily addressing the quadruple aim of healthcare.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304359	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304359	heart+disease
The Pan African medical journal	[Marginal Féréol-Besnier erythema: rare manifestation during acute articular rhumatism].	This study reports the case of a 3-year old female child with a 1-year history of rash manifesting as discoid plaques with pink, non-itchy, rounded and oval, polycyclic, confluent macular areas measuring 1-3 cm in diameter, with central clearing evolving in stages, with repeated regression and reappearance. The child was admitted to the Emergency Department with respiratory distress, fever and aggravation of pre-existing skin lesions becoming diffuse. Mitral holosystolic murmur with an intensity of grade 4/6 was recorded by cardiac auscultation. Cardiac ultrasound showed acute massive mitral insufficiency with valvular vegetations. Laboratory tests showed inflammation with a CRP level of 300 mg/l and a sedimentation rate of 60 mm in the first hour and ASLO levels were very high (1600 IU/ml). The diagnosis of infectious endocarditis due to valvular rheumatic heart disease was retained. After stabilization, antibiotic therapy and mitral valve surgery in emergency, the dermatological lesions regressed in a few days but the haemodynamic condition of the child deteriorated rapidly with sudden death. Besnier erythema is a rare cutaneous manifestation of acute articular rhumatism. Physicians should not neglect this rare but useful clinical sign, especially in patients with subclinical valvular involvement in order to avoid potential late cardiac complications. The three differential diagnoses included: ringworm, urticaria, and erythema due to hereditary angioedema.	2019	fre	Journal Article	Uganda	31303907	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303907	heart+disease
Clinical nutrition (Edinburgh, Scotland)	Dietary vs. pharmacological doses of zinc: A clinical review.	Zinc deficiency has a global impact on health in both developing and developed countries, especially among children and the elderly. By modulating anti-inflammatory and antioxidant pathways, zinc supplementation is recommended for the treatment of several ailments, such as liver disease, male hypogonadism, cancers, heart disease (e.g. dyslipidemia) and central nervous system disorders; however, the topic of dietary vs. pharmacological doses of zinc remains controversial. This paper provides a detailed critical review of the effects of zinc supplementation in medicinal doses (i.e. >40 mg/d of elemental zinc) on human health. We further highlight the difficulty in achieving a therapeutic dose of zinc from foodstuffs.	2019	eng	Review	England	31303527	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303527	heart+disease
Enfermeria clinica	Outpatient nursing care implementations in Indonesian regional public hospitals.	The implementation of care that is not optimal can result in a decrease in patient satisfaction and safety. The support of hospital management is needed to facilitate the availability of adequate nursing resources (both quantity and quality) and to provide equipment, facilities, and logistics to optimize nursing care.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31303518	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303518	heart+disease
International journal of cardiology	Lipid levels achieved after a first myocardial infarction and the prediction of recurrent atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.	Our data question the importance of LDL-C levels achieved at first revisit post-MI for decisions on continued treatment intensity considering the weak association with rASCVD observed in this post-MI cohort.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303394	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303394	heart+disease
The American journal of cardiology	Prevalence of Mental Illness in Adolescents and Adults With Congenital Heart Disease from the Colorado Congenital Heart Defect Surveillance System.	The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of the full spectrum of mental illness in adolescents (aged 11 to 17) and adults (aged 18 to 64) with congenital heart defects (CHDs) in the population-level Colorado Congenital Heart Disease Surveillance System. Further we sought to investigate whether severity of the defect, frequency of recent cardiac procedures or underlying genetic disorders influence these estimates. The cohort included patients in clinical care for CHDs between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2013, identified across multiple healthcare systems and insurance claims. Of 2,192 adolescents with CHDs, 20% were diagnosed with a mental illness with the most prevalent categories being developmental disorders (8%), anxiety disorders (6%), attention, conduct, behavior, impulse control disorders (6%), and mood disorders (5%). Of 6,924 adults with CHDs, 33% were diagnosed with a mental illness with the most prevalent categories being mood disorders (13%), anxiety disorders (13%), and substance-related disorders (6%). Greater lesion complexity was associated with a higher likelihood of anxiety and developmental disorders in both adolescents and adults. Adolescents and adults who had ≥2 cardiac procedures in the 3-year surveillance period had a 3- and 4.5-fold higher likelihood of a mental illness diagnosis, respectively, compared with those who had fewer than 2 cardiac procedures. Finally, patients with a genetic syndrome were more likely to have a mental illness diagnosis. In conclusion, mental illness is a prevalent co-morbidity in the adolescent and adult population with CHDs, thus comprehensive care should include mental health care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303246	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303246	heart+disease
Journal of the American Heart Association	Prevalence and Cardiovascular Health Impact of Family History of Premature Heart Disease in the United States: Analysis of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 2007-2014.	Background Because family history is a known risk factor for heart disease, it is important to characterize its public health impact in terms of population prevalence of family history of heart disease, the burden of heart disease attributable to family history, and whether family history interacts with modifiable risk factors for heart disease. Methods and Results We used population data from NHANES (the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey [2007-2014]) to measure the association of self-reported family history of premature heart disease ( FHPHD ) with cardiovascular disease (n=19 253) and to examine the association between cardiovascular health metrics and FHPHD (n=16 248). Using logistic regression and multivariable adjustment, family history odds ratios were 5.91 (95% CI , 3.34-10.44) for ages 20 to 39, 3.02 (95% CI, 2.41-3.79) for ages 40 to 59, and 1.87 (95% CI , 1.54-2.28) for age ≥60 for cardiovascular disease. The prevalence of cardiovascular disease for the population with a FHPHD (15.72%; 95% CI , 13.81-17.64) was more than double the prevalence of cardiovascular disease for those without a family history (6.25%; 95% CI , 5.82-6.69). Compared with participants with optimum cardiovascular health, the prevalence ratio for FHPHD was 1.98 (95% CI , 1.40-2.79) for those with inadequate cardiovascular health. Conclusions Millions of people who are at high risk of having cardiovascular disease could be identified using FHPHD . FHPHD can become an important component of public health campaigns that address modifiable risk factors that plan to reduce the overall risk of heart disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303097	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303097	heart+disease
Zhonghua yi xue yi chuan xue za zhi = Zhonghua yixue yichuanxue zazhi = Chinese journal of medical genetics	[Clinical and genetic analysis of a case carrying 7p22.3 deletion, 7p22.3p22.2 duplication and 7q33q36.3 duplication].	CMA can precisely detect microdeletion/duplications and facilitate the genotype-phenotype correlation analysis.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31302917	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302917	heart+disease
Chinese journal of integrative medicine	Effect and Safety of Guanxinning Tablet () for Stable Angina Pectoris Patients with Xin (Heart)-Blood Stagnation Syndrome: A Randomized, Multicenter, Placebo-Controlled Trial.	GXN was a safe and effective treatment for stable angina pectoris patients with XBSS at a dose of 4 tablets, thrice daily.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31302851	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302851	heart+disease
Heart and vessels	Early palliative balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty in neonates and young infants with tetralogy of Fallot.	We aim to clarify the efficacy of early palliative balloon pulmonary valvuloplasty (BPV) in neonates and young infants (< 60 days) with tetralogy of Fallot (TOF). We performed palliative BPV in 31 subjects, regardless of the presence of cyanosis, with Z score of the pulmonary valve diameter (PVD) less than - 2.00. Primary and secondary endpoints were to avoid early surgical interventions for subjects within 6 months of age and to undergo the pulmonary valve-sparing procedure at corrective surgery, respectively. We studied factors associated with these outcomes among them. BPV was performed at 19 days (14-33) of age and with a weight of 3.34 kg (3.02-3.65). Systemic oxygen saturation, Z score of the PVD, and pulmonary arterial index (PAI) were 87% (81-91), - 3.56 (- 4.15 to - 2.62), and 128 mm	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31302722	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302722	heart+disease
Europace : European pacing, arrhythmias, and cardiac electrophysiology : journal of the working groups on cardiac pacing, arrhythmias, and cardiac cellular electrophysiology of the European Society of Cardiology	The entirely subcutaneous ICDTM system in patients with congenital heart disease: experience from a large single-centre analysis.	The S-ICDTM seems to be a valuable option for the prevention of SCD in patients with various CHDs and complex anatomical anomalies. The S-ICDTM is safe and works effectively, also in these complex patients. Inadequate shock delivery was rare and could be managed by reprogramming.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302706	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302706	heart+disease
Heart (British Cardiac Society)	Symptoms, disease severity and treatment of adults with a new diagnosis of severe aortic stenosis.	NCT02241447;Results.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302639	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302639	heart+disease
Archives of gerontology and geriatrics	Association of physical performance and self-rated health with multimorbidity among older adults: Results from a nationwide survey in Japan.	Multimorbidity is prevalent in older Japanese adults, and poor grip strength and self-rated health were independently and significantly associated with multimorbidity. Health assessments that include these indicators may provide insight into the health status patterns of older adults with multimorbidity and inform the development of health management strategies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302504	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302504	heart+disease
Diagnostic and interventional imaging	Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries in a 69-year-old woman.	 	2019	eng	Letter	France	31302072	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302072	heart+disease
JACC. Heart failure	Predicting Risk for Incident Heart Failure With Omega-3 Fatty Acids: From MESA.	Higher plasma EPA was significantly associated with reduced risk for HF, with both reduced and preserved EF. (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis [MESA]; NCT00005487).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302044	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302044	heart+disease
Transplantation proceedings	High Cardiovascular Risk Profile in Young Patients on the Kidney Transplant Waiting List.	Cardiovascular risk factors are quite common in our cohort and affect young patients similarly.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301861	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301861	heart+disease
Seminars in arthritis and rheumatism	T1 mapping cardiac magnetic resonance imaging frequently detects subclinical diffuse myocardial fibrosis in systemic sclerosis patients.	native T1 mapping detects left ventricular ET1 (potential DMF) in 50% of patients with SSc and a third of them had a normal conventional screening including standard CMR. In the future, further studies are needed to confirm the benefit of use of native T1 mapping as a part of routine follow up to detect earlier pejorative cardiac involvement in SSc patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301817	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301817	heart+disease
American heart journal	Determining the impact of Benzathine penicillin G prophylaxis in children with latent rheumatic heart disease (GOAL trial): Study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT03346525. Date Registered: November 17, 2017.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301533	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301533	heart+disease
The American journal of medicine	Cholesterol lowering and stroke: no longer room for pleiotropic effects of statins - confirmation from PCSK9 inhibitor studies.	These findings offer a definitive proof that the pure total (and low-density lipoprotein) cholesterol lowering, with any available lipid-lowering intervention, reduce stroke risk proportional to the extent of cholesterol reduction, without the need of invoking "pleiotropic" effects of any such treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301293	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301293	heart+disease
American journal of medical genetics. Part A	GATA6 mutations: Characterization of two novel patients and a comprehensive overview of the GATA6 genotypic and phenotypic spectrum.	The first human mutations in GATA6 were described in a cohort of patients with persistent truncus arteriosus, and the phenotypic spectrum has expanded since then. This study underscores the broad phenotypic spectrum by presenting two patients with de novo GATA6 mutations, both exhibiting complex cardiac defects, pancreatic, and other abnormalities. Furthermore, we provided a detailed overview of all published human genetic variation in/near GATA6 published to date and the associated phenotypes (n = 78). We conclude that the most common phenotypes associated with a mutation in GATA6 were structural cardiac and pancreatic abnormalities, with a penetrance of 87 and 60%, respectively. Other common malformations were gallbladder agenesis, congenital diaphragmatic hernia, and neurocognitive abnormalities, mostly developmental delay. Fifty-eight percent of the mutations were de novo, and these patients more often had an anomaly of intracardiac connections, an anomaly of the great arteries, and hypothyroidism, compared with those with inherited mutations. Functional studies mostly support loss-of-function as the pathophysiological mechanism. In conclusion, GATA6 mutations give a wide range of phenotypic defects, most frequently malformations of the heart and pancreas. This highlights the importance of detailed clinical evaluation of identified carriers to evaluate their full phenotypic spectrum.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301121	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301121	heart+disease
Netherlands heart journal : monthly journal of the Netherlands Society of Cardiology and the Netherlands Heart Foundation	Interpretations of and management actions following electrocardiograms in symptomatic patients in primary care: a retrospective dossier study.	GPs who feel competent in electrocardiography performed well in the opinion of the expert panel. We formulated various learning objectives for GPs performing electrocardiography.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301001	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301001	heart+disease
Bioscience reports	Insulin resistance in prostate cancer patients and predisposing them to acute ischemic heart disease.	Lack of insulin or insulin resistance (IR) plays a central role in diabetes mellitus and makes diabetics prone to acute ischemic heart disease (AIHD). It has likewise been found that many cancer patients, including prostate cancer patients die of AIHD. Previously it has been delineated from our laboratory that dermcidin could induce anomalous platelet aggregation in AIHD and also impaired nitric oxide and insulin activity and furthermore dermcidin was also found in a few types of cancer patients. To determine the role of this protein in prostatic malignancy a retrospective case-control study was conducted and blood was collected from prostate cancer patients and healthy normal volunteers. So, we measured the level of dermcidin protein and analyze the IR by HOMA score calculation. Nitric oxide was measured by methemoglobin method. HDL, HbA1c, BMI, hs-cTroponin-T were measured for the validation of the patients' status in the presence of DCN-2. Multiple logistic regression model adjusted for age and BMI identified that the Homeostasis Model Assessment (HOMA) score was significantly elevated in prostate cancer patients (OR=7.19, p 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300527	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300527	heart+disease
American heart journal	Contemporary epidemiology of infective endocarditis in patients with congenital heart disease: A UK prospective study.	Infective endocarditis in patients with CHD is an ongoing clinical challenge. In contemporary practice in tertiary congenital centers, 1 of 15 patients do not survive to hospital discharge. Streptococci remain the most common causative organism, and antecedent dental or medical procedures were undertaken in a significant minority in the 3 months before diagnosis. The presence of an atrioventricular septal defect or staphylococcal infection is associated with significantly increased risk of early mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299559	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299559	heart+disease
European journal of obstetrics, gynecology, and reproductive biology	Attained pregnancy among women with a prosthetic heart valve.	Women who undergo aortic or mitral valve replacement are less likely to achieve a pregnancy than matched counterparts without heart disease. This information, and the reasons for why this is so, can inform decisions about the timing of valve replacement and pregnancy planning.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31299524	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299524	heart+disease
The Annals of thoracic surgery	Congenital heart surgery Outcomes in Turner syndrome: Society of Thoracic Surgeons Database Analysis.	Surgeries for left-sided obstructive lesions are the most common operations in TS. Despite increased morbidity for select operations, TS was not associated with increased operative mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31299232	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299232	heart+disease
Journal of molecular and cellular cardiology	Gut microbe-derived metabolite trimethylamine N-oxide accelerates fibroblast-myofibroblast differentiation and induces cardiac fibrosis.	Cardiac function and cardiac fibrosis were significantly exacerbated in mice fed diets supplemented with either choline or TMAO, probably through accelerating the transformation of fibroblasts into myofibroblasts, indicating activation of TGF-βRI/Smad2 pathway.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299216	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299216	heart+disease
Medical care	Disputes of Self-reported Chronic Disease Over Time: The Role of Race, Ethnicity, Nativity, and Language of Interview.	The odds of disputing a prior chronic disease report were substantially higher for Latinos who were interviewed in Spanish compared with non-Latino white or black counterparts interviewed in English, even after accounting for other sociodemographic factors, cognitive declines, and time-in-sample considerations. Our findings point toward leveraging of multiple sources of data to triangulate information on chronic disease status as well as investigating potential mechanisms underlying the higher probability of dispute among Spanish-speaking Latino respondents.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299025	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299025	heart+disease
Disability and rehabilitation	Experience of cardiac tele-rehabilitation: analysis of patient narratives.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298957	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298957	heart+disease
Annals of global health	Insonation versus Auscultation in Valvular Disorders: Is Aortic Stenosis the Exception? A Systematic Review.	Compared to auscultation, insonation, in its currently available form, is a superior diagnostic tool for regurgitant lesions. However, insonation fails to improve upon auscultation for recognition of aortic stenosis. This limitation is likely due to absence of spectral Doppler and inability of HE to assess transvalvular velocity and gradient.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298821	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298821	heart+disease
Acta paediatrica (Oslo, Norway : 1992)	Pulse oximetry screening in a midwifery-led maternity setting with high antenatal detection of congenital heart disease.	Screening practices were influenced by the setting in which it was undertaken. Infant activity and age at the time of testing can influence saturation levels. Screening is associated with the identification of significant non-cardiac pathology. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Norway	31298757	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298757	heart+disease
Preventing chronic disease	A Community-Wide Collaboration to Reduce Cardiovascular Disease Risk: The Hearts of Sonoma County Initiative.	Factors contributing to the success of HSC include 1) starting small and focused to build trust among participants and demonstrate value, 2) working within the framework of a larger effort, and 3) providing long-term, open-ended backbone support.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298211	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298211	heart+disease
Journal of cellular biochemistry	Inhibition of miR-181b-5p protects cardiomyocytes against ischemia/reperfusion injury by targeting AKT3 and PI3KR3.	Ischemic heart disease (IHD) is the most occurring cardiovascular-associated disease, which is a primary leading cause of cardiac disability and death worldwide. Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury (MI/RI) has been linked to IHD-induced cardiomyocytes apoptosis and tissue damage. The clinical studies have indicated that pathophysiologic mechanisms of MI/RI are associated with reactive oxygen species generation, calcium overload, energy metabolism disorder, neutrophil infiltration, and others. However, the genetic mechanism of MI/RI remains unclear. In this study, we successfully established the reproducing abnormal heart observed in rat, of IHD-induced MI/RI post operation. By using these rats, we illustrated that expression of miR-181b-5p was increased not only in both hypoxia/reoxygenation-cultured H9C2 but also heart of myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (MI/R) rat. Suppression of the miR-181b-5p cardiomyocytes apoptosis and rescued myocardial infarction. Additionally, our data indicated that miR-181b-5p negatively regulates the expression of AKT3 and PIK3R3 through directly binding with its 3'-untranslated region. More importantly, suppression of miR-181b-5p protects the cardiomyocytes apoptosis and tissue damage from MI/R via regulation of PIK3R3 and AKT3. Hence, our study indicates that miR-181b-5p is essential for MI/RI via regulation of PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and could be a potential therapeutic target in IHD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297863	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297863	heart+disease
European journal of pediatrics	Significance of automated external defibrillator in identifying lethal ventricular arrhythmias.	Automated electrical defibrillator (AED) is critical in saving children who develop unexpected cardiac arrest (CA), but its diagnostic capacity is not fully acknowledged. Retrospective cohort study of patients with aborted sudden cardiac death (SCD) was performed. Twenty-five patients (14 males) aged 1.3 to 17.5 years who presented with CA survived with prompt cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Eighteen patients had no prior cardiac diagnosis. Cardiac arrest occurred in 10 patients with more than moderate exercise, in 7 with light exercise, and in 8 at rest (including one during sleep). Twenty-two patients were resuscitated with AED, all of which were recognized as a shockable cardiac rhythm. Thorough investigations revealed 6 ion channelopathies (4 catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, one long QT syndrome, and one Brugada syndrome), 5 congenital heart disease (including 2 with coronary artery obstruction), 6 cardiomyopathies, 2 myocarditis, and 2 miscellaneous. Four patients had no identifiable heart disease. In 5 patients, the downloaded AED-recorded rhythm strip delineated the underlying arrhythmias and their responses to electrical shocks. Four patients who presented with generalized seizure at rest were initially managed for seizure disorder until AED recording identified lethal ventricular arrhythmias.Conclusions: AED reliably identifies the underlying lethal ventricular arrhythmias in addition to aborting SCD. What is Known: • Although infrequent in children, sudden cardiac death (SCD) is often an unexpected and tragic event. The etiology is diverse and sometimes remains unknown despite extensive investigations. • Automated external defibrillator (AED) is both therapeutic in aborting SCD and diagnostic in identifying the underlying lethal ventricular arrhythmias. However, the diagnostic aspect of AED is under-acknowledged by most medical providers. What is New: • Four of 25 patients (16%) were initially managed for possible seizure disorders until AED recording identified lethal ventricular arrhythmia. • The AED recording of the lethal arrhythmia during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) should always be obtained as it plays a crucial role in the decision-making process before ICD implantation. All medical providers should become familiar with downloading cardiac rhythm strips from AED when requested.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31297625	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297625	heart+disease
Current health sciences journal	The Impact of the Risk Factors in the Evolution of the Patients with Left Main Coronary Artery Stenosis Treated with PCI or CABG.	The aim of our study was to identify the cardiovascular risk factors present in patients with left main coronary artery disease (LMCAD), which influenced the progression of these patients in both percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We performed a clinical observational descriptive study in which, during three years, we followed the evolution of 81 patients who were diagnosed with left main coronary artery disease and who were treated either by interventional revascularization by stent implantation, by surgical revascularization by performing an aortic-coronary bypass. In our study the risk factors according to which the evolution of the patients was observed were represented by diabetes, smoking, age and gender. The primary endpoint was mortality from any cause and other clinical endpoints were the reduction of left ventricular ejection fraction, symptomatic ischemic heart disease manifested by angina pectoris, non-procedural myocardial infarction or need for repeated revascularization. In our study diabetes was the risk factor that negatively influenced the evolution of patients with LMCAD treated either by PCI or by CABG for the most part, followed by smoking, male gender and age over 65 years.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Romania	31297258	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297258	heart+disease
Heart Asia	Inter-rater and intra-rater reliability and agreement of echocardiographic diagnosis of rheumatic heart disease using the World Heart Federation evidence-based criteria.	The WHF echocardiographic criteria enable reproducible categorisation of echocardiograms as definite RHD versus no or borderline RHD and hence it would be a suitable tool for screening and monitoring disease progression. The study highlights the strengths and limitations of the WHF echo criteria and provides a platform for future revisions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31297166	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297166	heart+disease
Heart Asia	Severe adverse events following benzathine penicillin G injection for rheumatic heart disease prophylaxis: cardiac compromise more likely than anaphylaxis.	These results indicate that anaphylaxis is not a major cause of adverse reactions to BPG. An alternative mechanism for sudden death following BPG administration in people with severe RHD is proposed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31297163	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297163	heart+disease
Heart Asia	Cardioprotective medication adherence among patients with coronary heart disease in China: a systematic review.	In China, poor cardioprotective medication adherence is a key reason for the high mortality rate of coronary heart disease (CHD). The aims of this systematic review are to (1) describe and synthesise factors that influence medication adherence among Chinese people with CHD, (2) evaluate the current status of intervention studies, and (3) discuss directions of future research to improve medication adherence. A comprehensive search using PubMed, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Embase, Scopus, Global Health and PsycINFO was undertaken to describe poor adherence in China. Thirty-three eligible articles were included in the study. The review shows that there are multiple contributing factors to poor medication adherence, including patients' sociodemographic characteristics, health status and medication characteristics. In addition, from patients' perspective, lack of medication-related knowledge, such as the name, function, dosage and frequency, contributes to poor adherence. From physicians' perspective, a gap exists between CHD secondary prevention guidelines and clinical practice in China. Follow-up phone calls, educational lectures, booklets and reminder cards were common methods found to be effective in improving medication adherence. This systematic review indicates that cardioprotective medications were commonly prescribed as secondary prevention medication to patients with CHD in China, but adherence to these medications gradually decreased during a follow-up period. Therefore, more research should be conducted on how to establish high-quality health educational programmes aimed at increasing patients' medication adherence.	2019	eng	Systematic Review	England	31297162	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297162	heart+disease
Scientific reports	Independent Predictors of Cardiac Mortality and Hospitalization for Heart Failure in a Multi-Ethnic Asian ST-segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Population Treated by Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.	We aimed to identify independent predictors of cardiac mortality and hospitalization for heart failure (HHF) from a real-world, multi-ethnic Asian registry [the Singapore Myocardial Infarction Registry] of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients treated by primary percutaneous coronary intervention. 11,546 eligible STEMI patients between 2008 and 2015 were identified. In-hospital, 30-day and 1-year cardiac mortality and 1-year HHF rates were 6.4%, 6.8%, 8.3% and 5.2%, respectively. From the derivation cohort (70% of patients), age, Killip class and cardiac arrest, creatinine, hemoglobin and troponin on admission and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) during hospitalization were predictors of in-hospital, 30-day and 1-year cardiac mortality. Previous ischemic heart disease (IHD) was a predictor of in-hospital and 30-day cardiac mortality only, whereas diabetes was a predictor of 1-year cardiac mortality only. Age, previous IHD and diabetes, Killip class, creatinine, hemoglobin and troponin on admission, symptom-to-balloon-time and LVEF were predictors of 1-year HHF. The c-statistics were 0.921, 0.901, 0.881, 0.869, respectively. Applying these models to the validation cohort (30% of patients) showed good fit and discrimination (c-statistic 0.922, 0.913, 0.903 and 0.855 respectively; misclassification rate 14.0%, 14.7%, 16.2% and 24.0% respectively). These predictors could be incorporated into specific risk scores to stratify reperfused STEMI patients by their risk level for targeted intervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296912	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296912	heart+disease
BMJ case reports	Late perioperative native coronary artery spasm following bypass grafting in a patient with anomalous aortic origin of the coronary artery.	Native right coronary artery (RCA) spasm is a less frequent early complication of perioperative coronary artery bypass grafting. Late presentation at 6 days postoperation is scarce and its relationship with an anomalous coronary artery is unknown. The optimal management and prevention remains controversial. In the case presented, the patient's anomalous left coronary artery originating from the right coronary cusp underwent ligation at its proximal segment at the time of bypass grafting. This ligation was preformed to prevent competitive flow. Six days postoperation, a refractory spasm of dominant native RCA occurred. The spasm resulted in right ventricular failure. Administration of intracoronary verapamil had a longer sustained vasodilatory effect and resolution of coronary spasm when compared with intracoronary nitroglycerine injection. An intra-aortic balloon pump, inotropic agents and low-dose nitroglycerine were used to maintain adequate haemodynamic support. Right ventricular systolic function recovery was noted within 2 days postintervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296618	heart+disease
Heart (British Cardiac Society)	Valve under the microscope: shining a light on emerging technologies elucidating disease mechanisms.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	England	31296591	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296591	heart+disease
Pathology, research and practice	miR-17 regulates the proliferation and apoptosis of endothelial cells in coronary heart disease via targeting insulin-like-growth factor 1.	Coronary heart disease (CHD) is one of the main risks of death, which is mainly caused by coronary arteries arteriosclerosis. The present study aims to investigate the potential roles of miR-17 in CHD. In the present study, Human umbilical vascular endothelial cells (HUVECs) were treated with oxidized low density lipoprotein (ox-LDL). qRT-PCR and western blot were used to examine the mRNA and protein levels, respectively. CCK-8 and flow cytomtry were conducted to determine the proliferation and apoptosis of ox-LDL treated HUVECs. Moreover, luciferase assay was performed to confirm whether insulin-like Growth Factor-1 (IGF-1) was a target of miR-17. The results showed that miR-17 was upregulated in ox-LDL treated HUVECs, while IGF-1 was downregulated. The luciferase activity of ox-LDL treated HUVECs was decreased after the treatment of miR-17 mimics and IGF-1 3'UTR WT. Moreover, overexpressed miR-17 promoted the cell viability and inhibited the apoptosis of ox-LDL treated HUVECs, which was more potent after the treatment of IGF-1 siRNA. Furthermore, the expression of Bax and Caspase3 was decreased, and Bcl-2 was increased in ox-LDL treated HUVECs transfected with miR-17 mimics, which was further decreased after transfection with IGF-1 siRNA. Taken together, miR-17 may regulate the proliferation and apoptosis of ox-LDL treated HUVECs. miR-17 may be a promising biomarker for CHD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31296440	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296440	heart+disease
BMC medicine	Sex differences in the association between diabetes and risk of cardiovascular disease, cancer, and all-cause and cause-specific mortality: a systematic review and meta-analysis of 5,162,654 participants.	Compared with men with the same condition, women with diabetes have a 58% and 13% greater risk of CHD and all-cause mortality, respectively, although there was a significant heterogeneity between studies. This points to an urgent need to develop sex- and gender-specific risk assessment strategies and therapeutic interventions that target diabetes management in the context of CHD prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296205	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296205	heart+disease
Circulation. Heart failure	Plasma Ceramides and Sphingomyelins in Relation to Heart Failure Risk.	URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov . Unique identifier: NCT00005133.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296099	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296099	heart+disease
Brain injury	Healthy lifestyle after traumatic brain injury: a brief narrative.	Individuals living with traumatic brain injury (TBI) are at an increased risk for developing chronic conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, and hypertension compared to the non-injured population. Furthermore, TBI-specific challenges such as physical limitations, pain, mood, and impaired cognition make it difficult to live a healthy lifestyle. Key health behaviors that contribute to overall health and well-being after TBI include physical activity and healthy eating, sleep, participation, eliminating substance abuse, and managing stress. The objectives of this narrative are to (1) describe the key components of a healthy lifestyle for individuals with a TBI, (2) identify the challenges that individuals with TBI face when attempting to establish these health behaviors, and (3) discuss approaches and supports to achieve these health behaviors after TBI, including the role of self-management.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296066	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296066	heart+disease
Circulation. Arrhythmia and electrophysiology	Comparison of the Ventricular Tachycardia Circuit Between Patients With Ischemic and Nonischemic Cardiomyopathies.	Among mappable ICM VTs, critical circuit components can usually be identified on the endocardium. In contrast, among mappable NICM VTs, although some critical component can typically be identified with the addition of epicardial mapping, the isthmus is less commonly identified, possibly due to midmyocardial location.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296041	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296041	heart+disease
International journal of molecular sciences	Protective Effects of Euthyroidism Restoration on Mitochondria Function and Quality Control in Cardiac Pathophysiology.	Mitochondrial dysfunctions are major contributors to heart disease onset and progression. Under ischemic injuries or cardiac overload, mitochondrial-derived oxidative stress, Ca	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31295805	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295805	heart+disease
Internal medicine journal	Sudden cardiac death: an update.	Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is a devastating and all too common result of both acquired and genetic heart diseases. The profound sadness endured by families is compounded by the risk many of these deaths confer upon surviving relatives. For those with known cardiac disease, disease-specific therapy and risk stratification are key to reducing sudden death. For families of a SCD victim, uncovering a definitive cause of death can help relieve the agonising uncertainty and is a vital first step in screening surviving relatives and instituting therapy to reduce SCD risk. Increasing knowledge about the molecular mechanisms and genetic drivers of malignant arrhythmias in the diverse clinical entities that can cause SCD is vital if we are to optimise risk stratification and personalise patient care. Advances in diagnostic tools, disease-specific therapy and defibrillator technology are improving outcomes for patients and their families but there is still much progress to be made.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31295785	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295785	heart+disease
World neurosurgery	Emergent Decompression Of Intracranial Abscess In Eisenmenger Syndrome.	Eisenmenger syndrome is a rare sequela of uncorrected congenital heart disease complicated by pulmonary hypertension, from which reversal of the pathologic left-to-right cardiovascular shunt and cyanosis follow. Right-to-left shunting can lead to paradoxical cerebral emboli-increasing the risk of spontaneous or iatrogenic stroke and cerebral abscess. A 38 year-old man presented with new focal seizures due to a brain abscess. Ventricular septal defect and pulmonary hypertension were identified. Despite dexamethasone and broad-spectrum antibiotics, he developed hemiparesis and altered mental status, and required emergent stereotactic abscess drainage. Despite the anesthetic hazards of Eisenmenger syndrome, the procedure was successful, and the patient recovered completely. Non-cardiac perioperative mortality in Eisenmenger syndrome is historically reported up to 19%, and risks are further increased with prolonged case duration or hypotension, mandating vigilant attention to volume status. Correspondingly, shorter or lower-risk procedures such as stereotactic drainage are recommended. Procedures should be performed only at centers with expertise in management of Eisenmenger syndrome and cardiac-specialized anesthesiologists whenever possible. Although a conservative approach with early, aggressive medical management is preferred, operative intervention may be required in the setting of progressive deterioration, and excellent postoperative outcomes are achievable.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295595	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295595	heart+disease
International journal of biological macromolecules	Synthesis and characterization of carboxymethyl starch-g-polyacrylic acids and their properties as adsorbents for ammonia and phenol.	Cigarette smoke contains a lot of harmful chemicals which cause different diseases like cancer, heart disease, bronchitis and ulcer etc. Ammonia and phenol are among those chemicals which cause cancer, fibrosis, respiratory disorder and pneumonia. So, to remove ammonia and phenol from cigarette smoke, five different types of carboxymethyl starch-g-polyacrylic acids (CMS-g-PAAs) were synthesized by using different initiators, different mole ratio of acrylic acid to CMS anhydroglucose unit (AGU) and different amount of water. Three types of modified CMSs, CMS-g-PAA1, CMS-g-PAA3 and CMS-g-PAA4 were selected for further characterization and application for ammonia and phenol adsorption. The 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31295480	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295480	heart+disease
PloS one	Twitter-based measures of neighborhood sentiment as predictors of residential population health.	Several studies have recently applied sentiment-based lexicons to Twitter to gauge local sentiment to understand health behaviors and outcomes for local areas. While this research has demonstrated the vast potential of this approach, lingering questions remain regarding the validity of Twitter mining and surveillance in local health research. First, how well does this approach predict health outcomes at very local scales, such as neighborhoods? Second, how robust are the findings garnered from sentiment signals when accounting for spatial effects? To evaluate these questions, we link 2,076,025 tweets from 66,219 distinct users in the city of San Diego over the period of 2014-12-06 to 2017-05-24 to the 500 Cities Project data and 2010-2014 American Community Survey data. We determine how well sentiment predicts self-rated mental health, sleep quality, and heart disease at a census tract level, controlling for neighborhood characteristics and spatial autocorrelation. We find that sentiment is related to some outcomes on its own, but these relationships are not present when controlling for other neighborhood factors. Evaluating our encoding strategy more closely, we discuss the limitations of existing measures of neighborhood sentiment, calling for more attention to how race/ethnicity and socio-economic status play into inferences drawn from such measures.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295294	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295294	heart+disease
PloS one	Multimorbidity and health seeking behaviours among older people in Myanmar: A community survey.	Chronic conditions are common among older people in Myanmar, with higher prevalence in women and in urban areas. The lower prevalence of chronic conditions in those who live in rural areas may be related to living a more traditional lifestyle.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295287	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295287	heart+disease
MMWR. Morbidity and mortality weekly report	Workplace Secondhand Tobacco Smoke Exposure Among U.S. Nonsmoking Workers, 2015.	Secondhand tobacco smoke (SHS) exposure contributes to ill health and disease, including heart disease, lung cancer, and stroke (1). Although cigarette smoking has declined among U.S. workers, workplace exposure to SHS remains high, particularly among workers in certain industries, such as construction (2,3). Implementation of smoke-free laws has proven to be beneficial in reducing SHS exposure in general (1). CDC analyzed data from the 2015 National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) Occupational Health Supplement to assess the prevalence of self-reported workplace SHS exposure among nonsmoking workers by smoke-free policy status in the workers' states of residence and in detailed industry categories and subcategories. In 2015, 19.9% of nonsmoking workers reported any exposure to SHS at work during the 12 months preceding the interview, and 10.1% reported frequent exposure (twice a week or more). Nonsmoking workers who resided in states with comprehensive smoke-free laws in all three categories of venues (private worksites, bars, and restaurants) were least likely to report frequent exposure to workplace SHS. Nonsmoking workers employed in the commercial and industrial machinery and equipment repair and maintenance industry reported the highest prevalences of any workplace SHS exposure (65.1%), whereas the construction industry had the highest reported number of exposed workers (2.9 million); these industry categories/subcategories include outdoor workplaces and other settings that are unlikely to be protected by smoke-free laws. Identifying specific at-risk workplaces and implementing targeted intervention strategies could help reduce SHS exposure at work and protect workers' health.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295233	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295233	heart+disease
Research and practice in thrombosis and haemostasis	Venous thromboembolism in chronic pediatric heart disease is associated with substantial health care burden and expenditures.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294324	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294324	heart+disease
Frontiers in pediatrics	Congenital Heart Disease in East Africa.	Congenital Heart Disease (CHD) is an enormous problem in Low Middle Income Countries and particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. There is an estimated 500,000 children born in Africa with CHD each year with a major proportion of this in sub-Saharan Africa. The vast majority of these children receive sub-optimal or no care at all. In East Africa: Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda have all attempted to create a CHD service for the last 20 years with minimal success due to various factors. Visiting cardiac missions have made considerable contributions in the development of CHD services in these countries, however there remains a significant number of children with lack of care. We explore the positive aspects of the current projects, the various factors that hinder growth in this area, and what can be done to promote CHD service growth in these countries.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31294003	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294003	heart+disease
Journal of thoracic disease	Initial experiences with a centrifugal-pump based minimal invasive extracorporeal circulation system in pediatric congenital cardiac surgery.	MiECC can be performed by using standard techniques for closed and open cardiac procedures for the correction of a variety of malformations in neonates and children with good results and uneventful postoperative course.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31293793	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293793	heart+disease
Frontiers in physiology	Renyi Distribution Entropy Analysis of Short-Term Heart Rate Variability Signals and Its Application in Coronary Artery Disease Detection.	Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a life-threatening condition that, unless treated at an early stage, can lead to congestive heart failure, ischemic heart disease, and myocardial infarction. Early detection of diagnostic features underlying electrocardiography signals is crucial for the identification and treatment of CAD. In the present work, we proposed novel entropy called Renyi Distribution Entropy (RdisEn) for the analysis of short-term heart rate variability (HRV) signals and the detection of CAD. Our simulation experiment with synthetic, physiological, and pathological signals demonstrated that RdisEn could distinguish effectively among different subject groups. Compared to the values of sample entropy or approximation entropy, the RdisEn value was less affected by the parameter choice, and it remained stable even in short-term HRV. We have developed a combined CAD detection scheme with RdisEn and wavelet packet decomposition (WPD): (1) Normal and CAD HRV beats obtained were divided into two equal parts. (2) Feature acquisition: RdisEn and WPD-based statistical features were calculated from one part of HRV beats, and student's 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293457	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293457	heart+disease
Blood pressure	Added value of aortic pulse wave velocity index for the detection of coronary heart disease by elective coronary angiography.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31293183	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293183	heart+disease
Europace : European pacing, arrhythmias, and cardiac electrophysiology : journal of the working groups on cardiac pacing, arrhythmias, and cardiac cellular electrophysiology of the European Society of Cardiology	Vernakalant for cardioversion of recent-onset atrial fibrillation: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Vernakalant should be a first line option for the pharmacological cardioversion of patients with haemodynamically stable recent-onset AF without severe structural heart disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292622	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292622	heart+disease
European heart journal	Corrigendum to: Ephemeral Coronary Heart Disease.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292619	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292619	heart+disease
European journal of cardio-thoracic surgery : official journal of the European Association for Cardio-thoracic Surgery	Risk factors for chylothorax and persistent serous effusions after congenital heart surgery.	Persistent serous effusion is associated with a higher vasoactive inotropic score 72 h after surgery, an aortic cross-clamp time >86 min and elevated central venous pressure directly after surgery, which, in combination, potentially indicate cardiac stress. The developed logistic algorithm helps to estimate future likelihood.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31292607	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292607	heart+disease
Nature communications	Paternal-age-related de novo mutations and risk for five disorders.	There are established associations between advanced paternal age and offspring risk for psychiatric and developmental disorders. These are commonly attributed to genetic mutations, especially de novo single nucleotide variants (dnSNVs), that accumulate with increasing paternal age. However, the actual magnitude of risk from such mutations in the male germline is unknown. Quantifying this risk would clarify the clinical significance of delayed paternity. Using parent-child trio whole-exome-sequencing data, we estimate the relationship between paternal-age-related dnSNVs and risk for five disorders: autism spectrum disorder (ASD), congenital heart disease, neurodevelopmental disorders with epilepsy, intellectual disability and schizophrenia (SCZ). Using Danish registry data, we investigate whether epidemiologic associations between each disorder and older fatherhood are consistent with the estimated role of dnSNVs. We find that paternal-age-related dnSNVs confer a small amount of risk for these disorders. For ASD and SCZ, epidemiologic associations with delayed paternity reflect factors that may not increase with age.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292440	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292440	heart+disease
Circulation journal : official journal of the Japanese Circulation Society	Evaluation of Risk Factors for Major Amputation in Patients With Diabetes and Peripheral Artery Disease Receiving Antiplatelet Therapy　- Post Hoc Analysis of a Prospective Observational Multicenter Cohort Study (SEASON).	These findings inform real-world understanding of PAD in diabetic patients receiving antiplatelet therapy in Japan, and showed that ABI <0.4 was the strongest risk factor for amputation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31292312	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292312	heart+disease
Heart (British Cardiac Society)	Progression of aortic root dilatation and aortic valve regurgitation after the arterial switch operation.	After ASO, neo-aortic dilatation proceeds beyond childhood and is associated with an increase in AR incidence over time. Careful follow-up of the neo-aortic valve and root function is mandatory, especially in males and in patients with complex TGA anatomy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292191	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292191	heart+disease
The Canadian journal of cardiology	Predicting 15-Year Mortality in Adults With Congenital Heart Disease Using Disease Severity and Functional Indices.	These results suggest that the Task Force 1 of the 32nd Bethesda Conference, New York Heart Association functional class, Ability Index, and CHDFI could aid in predicting long-term mortality. The CHDFI demonstrated the highest discrimination ability and emphasizes the importance to integrate both anatomic and physiological variables to predict long-term mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292090	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292090	heart+disease
The Canadian journal of cardiology	The Complex Relationship That Is RV-PA Coupling and Its Relevance to Managing Congenital Heart Disease.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	England	31292078	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292078	heart+disease
Xi bao yu fen zi mian yi xue za zhi = Chinese journal of cellular and molecular immunology	[The number and subgroups of lymphocytes in valve tissue of rheumatic heart disease combined with diabetes mellitus].	Objective To investigate the effect of diabetes mellitus on lymphocytes in rheumatic heart valve tissue and its mechanism. Methods Valve tissues of 40 patients undergoing heart valve replacement were collected, including 20 patients in rheumatic heart disease group (without diabetes) and 20 patients in diabetic group (rheumatic heart disease combined with diabetes). In addition, 20 cases of valve tissue from control group were collected. HE staining was used to observe the damage of valve tissue and the area of collagen degeneration. CD4	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31292060	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292060	heart+disease
Respiratory research	Do blood eosinophils strictly reflect airway inflammation in COPD? Comparison with asthmatic patients.	Blood eosinophils correlated with sputum eosinophils to a lesser degree in COPD than in asthmatic patients. Older age, high blood eosinophils and hypertension affected the correlation between blood and sputum eosinophils, more studies are needed to evaluate the role of other cardiac comobidities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291952	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291952	heart+disease
PloS one	Substituting polyunsaturated fat for saturated fat: A health impact assessment of a fat tax in seven European countries.	There is evidence that replacing saturated fat (SFA) with polyunsaturated fat (PUFA) lowers ischemic heart disease (IHD). In order to improve the population's diet, the World Health Organization has called for the taxation of foods that are high in SFA. We aimed to assess the potential health gains of a European fat tax by applying the SFA intake reduction that has been observed under the Danish fat tax to six other European countries. For each country, we created a fat tax scenario with a decreased SFA intake and a corresponding increase in PUFA. We compared this fat tax scenario to a reference scenario with no change in SFA intake, and to a guideline scenario with a population-wide SFA intake in line with dietary recommendations. We used DYNAMO-HIA to dynamically project the policy-attributable IHD cases of these three scenarios 10 years into the future. A fat tax would reduce prevalent IHD cases by a minimum of 500 and 300 among males and females in Denmark, respectively, up to a maximum of 5,600 and 4,000 among males and females in the UK. Thereby, the prevented IHD cases under a fat tax scenario would correspond to between 11.0% (in females in the Netherlands) and 29.5% (in females in Italy) of the prevented IHD cases under a guideline scenario, which represents the maximum preventable disease burden. Henceforth, our quantification of beneficial health impacts makes the case for the policy debate on fat taxes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291265	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291265	heart+disease
Journal of psychiatric practice	Drug-Drug Interactions (DDIs) in Psychiatric Practice, Part 6: Pharmacodynamic Considerations.	This column is the sixth in a series exploring drug-drug interactions (DDIs) with a special emphasis on psychiatric medications. The first 3 columns in this DDI series discussed why patients being treated with psychiatric medications are at increased risk for taking multiple medications and thus experiencing DDIs, how to recognize such DDIs, strategies for avoiding and/or minimizing adverse outcomes from such DDIs, and pharmacokinetic considerations concerning DDIs in psychiatric practice. The fourth and fifth columns in this series presented a pair of parallel tables, one of which outlined the primary, known mechanism(s) of action of all commonly used psychiatric medications and one of which summarized major types of pharmacodynamic DDIs based on mechanism of action. Clinicians can use these 2 tables together to predict pharmacodynamically mediated DDIs. This sixth column in the series discusses some key issues related to pharmacodynamic interactions involving commonly used psychiatric medications. The column first discusses 3 types of pharmacological agents that deserve special mention because of the widespread types of pharmacodynamic DDIs they can have with psychiatric and other medications: ethanol, opioids, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors, with a special focus on hypertensive crises and serotonin syndrome with monoamine oxidase inhibitors. The column also discusses DDIs in terms of effects on the cardiovascular system, including QTc prolongation, blood pressure and heart rate regulation, increased risk of bleeding and abnormal bleeding, and valvular heart disease, and on the central nervous system, including increased sedation, respiratory depression, body temperature regulation, and tardive dyskinesia. The overall goal of this series of columns is to present a simple way of conceptualizing neuropsychiatric medications in terms of their pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics to allow prescribers to take these facts into consideration when they need to use more than 1 drug in combination to optimally treat a patient.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291209	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291209	heart+disease
Journal of pediatric psychology	From Diagnoses to Ongoing Journey: Parent Experiences Following Congenital Heart Disease Diagnoses.	Parents' experiences informed both acute and long term implications following CHD diagnoses, and highlight current gaps in mental health care. Direction for clinical care and improved intervention opportunities are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290975	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290975	heart+disease
JAMA cardiology	Systolic Blood Pressure and Risk of Valvular Heart Disease: A Mendelian Randomization Study.	Lifetime exposure to elevated systolic BP appears to be associated with an increased risk of major valvular heart disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290937	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290937	heart+disease
Journal of clinical hypertension (Greenwich, Conn.)	Orthostatic hypotension and the risk of atrial fibrillation and other cardiovascular diseases: An updated meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies.	The relationships between orthostatic hypotension (OH) and some kinds of cardiovascular disease are inconsistent among studies. This updated meta-analysis was conducted in hopes of producing progress on this topic. A systematic database search was performed in electronic databases, including the Chinese Biomedical Database (CBM), PubMed, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library. Summary hazard ratio (HR) estimates with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated by a random-effects model. Statistical heterogeneity was assessed with Cochran's Q test and the I	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290595	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290595	heart+disease
Congenital heart disease	Alternative approach to pediatric cardiac quality assessment for low-volume centers.	While small programs may not participate in the spectrum of cardiac care registries available, these same centers can benefit from them by adapting some of their validated metrics for use in internal, self-maintained quality reports. Our pilot of this alternative approach revealed opportunities for improved quality assessment practices; the product can serve as a baseline for future prospective assessment and reporting, as well as longitudinal internal benchmarking.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290585	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290585	heart+disease
Ultrasound in obstetrics & gynecology : the official journal of the International Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynecology	Three-dimensional printed multicolor normal and abnormal fetal hearts based on ultrasound imaging data.	 	2019	eng	Letter	England	31290180	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290180	heart+disease
Journal of medical ultrasonics (2001)	Clinical application of stress echocardiography for valvular heart disease.	Stress echocardiography is widely used to assess several cardiovascular diseases, including ischemic heart disease, valvular heart disease (VHD), heart failure, congenital heart disease, and pulmonary hypertension. In valvular heart disease with asymptomatic severe or symptomatic non-severe status, stress echocardiography plays a central role in the management. As of 2017, the updated American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association and European Society of Cardiology/European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery VHD guidelines recommended stress testing to (1) confirm symptoms and (2) evaluate the hemodynamic response to exercise. In patients with undetermined VHD severity in the presence of low-flow status, it can also be helpful to determine whether the VHD is severe based on flow-dependent changes in response to stress. The clinical indications of stress echocardiography in VHD have expanded with growing evidence for prognosis and being an early marker for interventions. As a result, demand has increased in major cardiology societies for the standardization of stress echocardiography in VHD. Echocardiographic centers should be aware of the clinical potential of stress echocardiography to ensure its optimal application and performance in VHD. This article reviews the clinical application of stress echocardiography, including dobutamine, semisupine bicycle, treadmill, and leg-positive pressure for VHD patient management, and focuses on the current consensus regarding the use of stress echocardiography in VHD. Stress echocardiography is safe and should be encouraged, especially in heart valve clinics, to understand the complex mechanism in asymptomatic patients.	2019	eng	Review	Japan	31289972	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289972	heart+disease
International journal of epidemiology	PM2.5 air pollution and cause-specific cardiovascular disease mortality.	Long-term exposure to fine particulate air pollution is associated with ischaemic heart disease and stroke mortality, with excess risks occurring in the range of and below the present US long-term standard for ambient exposure to PM2.5 (12  µg/m3), indicating the need for continued improvements in air pollution abatement for CVD prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289812	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289812	heart+disease
BMJ case reports	ST elevation in recovery post exercise with normal coronary arteries.	We present the case of a 45-year-old healthy man who successfully completed three stages of the Bruce protocol but developed inferolateral ST segment elevation in the recovery phase. The ECG change was associated with a marked drop in blood pressure. He underwent emergency coronary angiography which revealed normal coronary arteries. It is likely that post-exercise hypotension triggered coronary spasm which caused the ST segment elevation. Alternatively, coronary spasm may have been the primary event, inducing sufficient myocardial ischaemia to cause a marked drop in blood pressure. Exercise tolerance testing is often a reliable test to rule out reversible myocardial ischaemia. While the physician is focused on ischaemic changes or rhythm abnormalities developing during the exercise phase, the recovery period is just as important and requires as much vigilance. Coronary vasospasm can result in significant ST changes and haemodynamic compromise at any point during the test, and the ECG traces can be indistinguishable from a classic ST elevation myocardial infarction, as in the present case.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289167	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289167	heart+disease
Die Pharmazie	Comparison of efficacy and safety of ilaprazole and esomeprazole both in initial treatment regimen and retreatment regimen of Helicobacter pylori infection in chronic gastritis.	The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of ilaprazole and esomeprazole both in initial treatment regimen and retreatment regimen of H. pylori infection in chronic gastritis and to explore risk factors for eradication failure. A total of 330 patients with chronic gastritis who were confirmed of H. pylori infection were enrolled in this study. 290 of them were initially treated patients and the 40 remained were patients with retreatment. Eradication assessment was performed at least four weeks after the completion of eradication therapy. Results showed that the eradication rates of the ilaprazole group and esomeprazole group were 91.4 % and 88.4 % for per-protocol (PP) analysis (p=0.41) and 89.0 % and 86.2 % for intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis (p=0.48) in initially treated patients. Meanwhile, they were 75.0 % and 72.2 % for PP analysis (p=0.85) and 75.0 % and 70.0 % for ITT analysis (p=0.72) in patients with retreatment. The differences were not statistically significant. There was also no significant difference in safety between the two drugs. A multiple logistic regression analysis showed that demographic factors such as age, gender, alcohol, smoking, coronary heart disease (CHD), hypertension (HTN) and diabetes mellitus (DM) did not affect eradication rates. However, patients with higher DOB values and patients with atrophic gastritis had significantly lower eradication rates than patients with lower DOB values and with non-atrophic gastritis whether the proton pump inhibitor (PPI) in eradication regimens was ilaprazole or esomeprazole. In conclusion, our findings suggest that the efficacy and safety of ilaprazole and esomeprazole were not significantly different both in initial treatment regimen and retreatment regimen of H. pylori infection in chronic gastritis and DOB values and type of chronic gastritis were to be independent risk factors for eradication failure. In addition, we discovered that a new quadruple regimen containing furazolidone and minocycline which achieved good efficacy and safety can be a promising option for retreatment of H. pylori infection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31288901	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288901	heart+disease
Cardiology in the young	Long-term outcomes in adults with repaired tetralogy of Fallot and pulmonary atresia.	Based on a review of 221 adults with repaired tetralogy of Fallot and pulmonary atresia, all patients had re-operations and all-cause mortality rate was 1.7 events per 100 patient-years. The current study provides important outcomes data for risk stratification in adults with tetralogy of Fallot and pulmonary atresia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288878	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288878	heart+disease
European journal of preventive cardiology	Associations of blood pressure categories defined by 2017 ACC/AHA guidelines with mortality in China: Pooled results from three prospective cohorts.	The newly defined stage 1 hypertension is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease mortality in the Chinese population, particularly among younger adults and those without a history of cardiovascular disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288541	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288541	heart+disease
Nutrition (Burbank, Los Angeles County, Calif.)	Gender differences in sociodemographic and lifestyle factors associated with diet quality in a multiethnic population.	Diet quality was associated with sociodemographic and lifestyle characteristics in men and women. The associations with several factors, such as marital status, body mass index, and smoking status, differed by gender. These findings may help to identify at-risk populations for nutritional screening and to develop nutritional intervention strategies and educational materials.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31288218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288218	heart+disease
Computerized medical imaging and graphics : the official journal of the Computerized Medical Imaging Society	Artery-vein segmentation in fundus images using a fully convolutional network.	Epidemiological studies demonstrate that dimensions of retinal vessels change with ocular diseases, coronary heart disease and stroke. Different metrics have been described to quantify these changes in fundus images, with arteriolar and venular calibers among the most widely used. The analysis often includes a manual procedure during which a trained grader differentiates between arterioles and venules. This step can be time-consuming and can introduce variability, especially when large volumes of images need to be analyzed. In light of the recent successes of fully convolutional networks (FCNs) applied to biomedical image segmentation, we assess its potential in the context of retinal artery-vein (A/V) discrimination. To the best of our knowledge, a deep learning (DL) architecture for simultaneous vessel extraction and A/V discrimination has not been previously employed. With the aim of improving the automation of vessel analysis, a novel application of the U-Net semantic segmentation architecture (based on FCNs) on the discrimination of arteries and veins in fundus images is presented. By utilizing DL, results are obtained that exceed accuracies reported in the literature. Our model was trained and tested on the public DRIVE and HRF datasets. For DRIVE, measuring performance on vessels wider than two pixels, the FCN achieved accuracies of 94.42% and 94.11% on arteries and veins, respectively. This represents a decrease in error of 25% over the previous state of the art reported by Xu et al. (2017). Additionally, we introduce the HRF A/V ground truth, on which our model achieves 96.98% accuracy on all discovered centerline pixels. HRF A/V ground truth validated by an ophthalmologist, predicted A/V annotations and evaluation code are available at https://github.com/rubenhx/av-segmentation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31288217	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288217	heart+disease
JAMA	Subclinical Hypothyroidism: A Review.	Subclinical hypothyroidism is common and most individuals can be observed without treatment. Treatment might be indicated for patients with subclinical hypothyroidism and serum thyrotropin levels of 10 mU/L or higher or for young and middle-aged individuals with subclinical hypothyroidism and symptoms consistent with mild hypothyroidism.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287527	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287527	heart+disease
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism	Risk prediction scores for mortality, cerebrovascular, and heart disease amongst Chinese people with type 2 diabetes.	The HKU-SG risk scores were developed and externally validated in two large Chinese population-based cohorts. The parsimonious use of clinical predictors compared to previous risk scores could allow wider implementation of risk estimation in diverse Chinese settings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287503	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287503	heart+disease
Paediatric anaesthesia	The effect of xenon-augmented sevoflurane-anaesthesia on intra-operative haemodynamics and postoperative neurocognitive function in children undergoing cardiac catheterization: a one-year follow up of a randomized controlled pilot trial.	We recently reported that in children between 4 and 12 years of age, suffering from congenital heart disease and undergoing cardiac catheterization, combining xenon with sevoflurane was safe and feasible.(1) In this population, after induction of anaesthesia with propofol-fentanyl-rocuronium, standardized anaesthesia maintained with sevoflurane titrated to a BIS-value of 40-60 (mean 2.04 vol-% [IQR 1.80-2.22]) resulted in short-lasting neurocognitive deficits when compared to a non-randomized group of healthy control children matched for age and gender. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31287192	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287192	heart+disease
JMIR medical informatics	Initial Experience of the Synchronized, Real-Time, Interactive, Remote Transthoracic Echocardiogram Consultation System in Rural China: Longitudinal Observational Study.	The synchronized real-time interactive remote TTE consultation system based on cloud computing service and unique dynamic image coding and decoding technology had high feasibility and applicability.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31287062	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287062	heart+disease
Cardiology in the young	Prenatal detection of fetal heart disease at Jordan University Hospital: early experience in a developing country.	The fetal cardiac diagnostic services at the Jordan University Hospital have encouraging initial results with a relatively high sensitivity and specificity. The services further positively impacted the quality of counselling offered and facilitated pre- and post-natal management.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31287035	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287035	heart+disease
Cardiology in the young	Clinical outcomes after the endovascular treatments of pulmonary vein stenosis in patients with congenital heart disease.	To improve survival and stent patency, implantation of large stent is important. However, re-intervention after stenting is also significant to obtain good outcome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31287033	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287033	heart+disease
BMC pharmacology & toxicology	Development of a mortality score to assess risk of adverse drug reactions among hospitalized patients with moderate to severe chronic kidney disease.	Mortality prediction model among hospitalized stages 3 to 5 CKD patients experienced ADR was developed in this study. This prediction model adds new knowledge to the healthcare system despite its modest performance coupled with its high sensitivity and specificity. This tool is clinically useful and effective in identifying potential CKD patients at high risk of ADR-related mortality during hospitalization using routinely performed clinical data.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31287030	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287030	heart+disease
Balkan medical journal	Fetal Complex Congenital Heart Disease Diagnosed by Prenatal Ultrasound and Corrosion Casting for Large-Vessels: A Report for Authentic Teaching by True Representation	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31286753	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286753	heart+disease
Journal of cardiovascular electrophysiology	Interesting response of antidromic reentrant tachycardia to atrial extra stimulus.	A 35-year old gentleman with no structural heart disease underwent EP study for recurrent episodes of palpitation with documented broad complex tachycardia with left bundle branch block (LBBB) morphology that was terminated with adenosine. Basal atrial-Hisian and His-ventricular intervals were within normal limits. Retrograde conduction was midline and decremental. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31286613	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286613	heart+disease
Current cardiology reports	The Onco-cardiologist Dilemma: to Implant, to Defer, or to Avoid Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement in Cancer Patients with Aortic Stenosis?	Patients with cancer in remission or with a favorable prognosis should be treated according to current cardiovascular guidelines. In these patients, aortic valve replacement can be performed either by surgery or transcatheter. Significant challenges arise in patients with active cancer, especially those receiving anti-cancer treatment. Recent data suggests that these patients can be offered aortic valve replacement, with a trend of favoring the transcatheter route in order to minimize perioperative risk and complications associated with major surgery. Patients with advanced cancer and severe aortic stenosis should be offered palliative care and can benefit from aortic balloon valvuloplasty if indicated. Modern cancer treatments associated with improved long-term prognosis may allow the appropriate cure of aortic stenosis. We discuss the protocol, outcomes, and evolving recommendations of aortic valve replacement in cancer patients with aortic stenosis.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31286273	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286273	heart+disease
CASE (Philadelphia, Pa.)	Noninvasive Bedside Vasodilator Testing Using Echocardiography.	 	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31286093	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286093	heart+disease
HeartRhythm case reports	Ivabradine for treatment of tachyarrhythmias in children and young adults.	 	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31285993	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285993	heart+disease
Cost effectiveness and resource allocation : C/E	Cost-effectiveness analysis of newborn pulse oximetry screening to detect critical congenital heart disease in Colombia.	At current rates and from the perspective of society, newborn pulse oximetry screening at 24 h in addition to physical examination, and considering a time horizon of 1 week, is a cost-effective strategy in the early diagnosis of CCHDs in Colombia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285695	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285695	heart+disease
The European respiratory journal	CV safety of nintedanib in subgroups by CV risk at baseline in the TOMORROW and INPULSIS trials.	Nintedanib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor used to treat idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). We investigated the cardiovascular (CV) safety of nintedanib using pooled data from the TOMORROW and INPULSIS® trials.CV events were assessed 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285303	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285303	heart+disease
Journal of cardiovascular pharmacology and therapeutics	Oral Anticoagulants in Patients With Atrial Fibrillation and End-Stage Renal Disease.	The role of oral anticoagulants (OAC) in atrial fibrillation (AF) is well established. However, none of the randomized controlled trials included patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) leaving a lack of evidence in this large, challenging and unique patient group. Patients on hemodialysis (HD) with AF have additional risk factors for stroke due to vascular comorbidities, HD treatment, age, and diabetes. Conversely, they are also at increased risk of major bleeding due to uremic platelet impairment. Anticoagulants increase bleeding risk in patients with ESRD and HD up to 10-fold compared with non chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients on warfarin. There are conflicting data and recommendations regarding use of OACs in ESRD which will be reviewed in this article. We conclude by proposing a modified strategy for OAC use in ESRD based on the latest evidence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31284744	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284744	heart+disease
Circulation	Widespread Translational Control of Fibrosis in the Human Heart by RNA-Binding Proteins.	We reveal widespread translational effects of TGFβ1 and define novel post-transcriptional regulatory networks that control the fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition. These networks are active in human heart disease and silencing of hub genes limits fibroblast activation. Our findings show the central importance of translational control in fibrosis and highlight novel pathogenic mechanisms in heart failure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31284728	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284728	heart+disease
Annals of internal medicine	Effects of Nutritional Supplements and Dietary Interventions on Cardiovascular Outcomes: An Umbrella Review and Evidence Map.	None.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31284304	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284304	heart+disease
Journal of molecular endocrinology	FNDC5/Irisin counteracts lipotoxic-induced apoptosis in hypoxic H9c2 cells.	Irisin is a newly identified adipokine critical to modulate body metabolism, fatty acid metabolism and oxidative stress; recent evidence suggests a cardioprotective role in ischemic injury. Loss of cardiomyocytes during acute myocardial infarction is strongly associated with energetic changes and lipotoxic-induced apoptosis. Our aim was to study FNDC5/irisin potential protective role against hypoxia and lipotoxicity, both related with myocardial infarction environment. H9c2 cells were treated with palmitate and/or irisin in normoxic/hypoxic conditions. Cell viability and apoptosis were assessed by MTT assay and annexin V/PI staining. Immunoblotting was used to confirm apoptotic cascade regulation. Irisin counteracts lipotoxic-induced apoptosis in hypoxic cardiomyoblasts by activating Akt signalling pathway suggesting the potential therapeutic role of irisin in ischemic heart disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31284265	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284265	heart+disease
American heart journal	The Low Dose Colchicine after Myocardial Infarction (LoDoCo-MI) study: A pilot randomized placebo controlled trial of colchicine following acute myocardial infarction.	Treatment with low dose colchicine was safe and well tolerated, but was not associated with a significantly increased likelihood of achieving a CRP level <2 mg/L or lower absolute levels of CRP 30 days after an acute MI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31284074	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284074	heart+disease
Chinese medical journal	Endothelial function and T-lymphocyte subsets in patients with overlap syndrome of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and obstructive sleep apnea.	The prevalence of hypertension and coronary heart disease was higher in patients with OS than in patients with either OSA or COPD alone. Patients with OS exhibited more severe vascular endothelial injury, stronger inflammatory response, and lower cellular immune function.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31283649	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283649	heart+disease
The journal of nursing research : JNR	Readiness for Behavior Change in Patients Living With Ischemic Heart Disease.	Patients are not adequately ready to change their health-related behaviors. Higher cardiovascular risk predicts higher readiness to change health behaviors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China (Republic : 1949- )	31283634	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283634	heart+disease
International journal of evidence-based healthcare	Epidemiological analyses for preparation of Clinical Practice Guidelines related to acute coronary syndromes in the Czech Republic.	Coronary heart disease, sometimes also referred to as ischemic heart disease, remains the leading condition causing most deaths and disability-adjusted life years worldwide. Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) represents a subset that is defined by sudden reduction of blood supply in the coronary arteries. ACS consists of unstable angina, non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), and ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).The current short communication aims to provide current ACS prevalence and incidence data analysis to inform development of clinical practice guidelines in the Czech Republic.The Institute of Health Information and Statistics of the Czech Republic has provided the data that are collected by the National Health Information System with the National Register of Reimbursed Health Services as a primary source providing data for the period from 2015 to 2017.There has been a slight decrease in the number of hospitalized patients for ACS in the Czech Republic from 2015 to 2017. Sex difference remains large, with majority (two thirds) of those hospitalized for unstable angina, NSTEMI, or STEMI being men. Hospitalization with STEMI is reported in younger age with no sex difference compared with NSTEMI and unstable angina.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31283581	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283581	heart+disease
Issues in mental health nursing	Prevalence of Chronic Health Conditions in Australian Adults with Depression and/or Anxiety.	The association between psychotic illness and poor physical health is now clearly articulated in the literature. By contrast the impact of depression and/or anxiety on physical health is considerably less understood, despite depression being the leading cause of disability worldwide and is associated with significantly higher prevalence of physical comorbidities than found in the general population. An Australia national cross-sectional population-based survey was conducted to ascertain the prevalence of chronic physical health conditions in persons with, and without depression and/or anxiety, allowing for demographic characteristics and lifestyle factors. The telephone-based survey was conducted using trained interviewers. Survey questions included those eliciting information about demographics, health status, and health behaviours. Independent t-tests and chi square tests showed demographic, health behaviours, and physical illness differed between those with and without depression and/or anxiety. Heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, cancer, arthritis, chronic neck and/or back pain, and asthma were significantly higher in participants diagnosed with depression and/or anxiety. Binary logistic regression showed the strongest predictor of chronic illness was having a diagnosis of depression and/or anxiety. Depression and anxiety present major health problems impacting a considerable proportion of the population. A greater understanding of the associated physical health issues should provide impetus to broaden the physical health and mental illness research agenda to include these diagnoses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31283353	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283353	heart+disease
JAMA neurology	Association Between Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension and Risk of Cardiovascular Diseases in Women in the United Kingdom.	Idiopathic intracranial hypertension in women appeared to be associated with a 2-fold increase in CVD risk; change in patient care to modify risk factors for CVD may reduce long-term morbidity for women with IIH and warrants further evaluation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282950	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282950	heart+disease
Zhongguo yi xue ke xue yuan xue bao. Acta Academiae Medicinae Sinicae	[Prevalence and Metabolic Abnormalities of Fatty Liver Disease among Adults in Mianyang City,Sichuan Province].	Objective To understand the prevalence and metabolic abnormalities of fatty liver disease among adults in Mianyang City,Sichuan Province,and to analyze their influencing factors.Methods Totally 294 603 adults aged 18 years and older were enrolled by using a multi-stage stratified random sampling method in Mianyang City from November 1,2014 to September 30,2015.Fatty liver was diagnosed by abdominal ultrasound.The general demographic characteristics,smoking history,drinking history,and history of chronic disease were collected through questionnaires.Meanwhile,10 217 subjects were randomly selected for biochemical tests[fasting plasma gluose(FPG),triacylglycerol(TG),total cholesterol(TC),and alanine aminotransferase(ALT)].Results Of these 294 603 subjects,17 105(5.81%)had fatty liver.After having been age-adjusted based on the results of the sixth national census in 2010,the standardized prevalence was 5.32%.The prevalence was significantly higher in males(6.76%;standardized prevalence:7.24%)than in females(5.09%;standardized prevalence:4.08%)(	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31282325	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282325	heart+disease
The journal of maternal-fetal & neonatal medicine : the official journal of the European Association of Perinatal Medicine, the Federation of Asia and Oceania Perinatal Societies, the International Society of Perinatal Obstetricians	The outcome of structural heart defects diagnosed in the first trimester of pregnancy.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31282223	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282223	heart+disease
Congenital heart disease	Postoperative and short-term atrial tachyarrhythmia burdens after transcatheter vs surgical pulmonary valve replacement among congenital heart disease patients.	There was an increased risk of AT in the first 30 days following S-PVR compared to TC-PVR. Additional factors associated with risk of AT events after PVR were a history of AT, age at valve implantation, and severe right atrial enlargement.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282099	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282099	heart+disease
Congenital heart disease	More than the heart: Hepatic, renal, and cardiac dysfunction in adult Fontan patients.	In adults following Fontan palliation, systolic ventricular dysfunction and decreased oxygen saturation were associated with hepatic and renal dysfunction as assessed by elevated serum creatinine, MELD, and MELD-XI scores.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282062	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282062	heart+disease
Case reports in cardiology	A Rare Case of Takotsubo Syndrome and Acute Coronary Syndrome of the Right Coronary Artery.	Takotsubo syndrome (TTS) is an increasingly recognized heart disease that was initially regarded as a benign condition, but since has proven to cause irreversible myocardial damage, resembling that of acute coronary syndrome (ACS). The etiology of TTS is still uncertain but may be associated with catecholamine elevations during times of emotional or physical stress. Catecholamines are also understood to have prothrombotic properties, which could lead to ACS. With these similarities, differentiating these two pathologies can be difficult, especially when TTS and ACS occur simultaneously.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31281681	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281681	heart+disease
Current cardiovascular imaging reports	Molecular Imaging in Ischemic Heart Disease.	This review summarizes the state of art of non-invasive molecular imaging of the myocardium during ischemia and after myocardial infarction using PET and MRI. We also describe the different contrast agents that have been developed to image the different phases of cardiac healing and the biological processes associated with each of those phases. Importantly, here we focus on imaging of inflammation as it is the key biological process that orchestrates clearance of dead cells, tissue remodeling, cardiac repair, and future outcome. We also focus on clinical translation of some of the novel contrast agents that have been tested in patients and discuss the need for larger, multi-center patient studies to fully validate the applicability of new imaging probes.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31281564	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281564	heart+disease
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	Clinical characteristics of patients with premature acute coronary syndrome and adverse cardiovascular events after PCI.	Few studies have compared the clinical manifestations of patients with premature acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and late-onset ACS as well as the adverse cardiovascular events following percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). To investigate the clinicopathological characteristics of patients with premature ACS and adverse cardiovascular events following PCI, a total of 726 patients with ACS undergoing PCI were divided into two groups: A premature ACS group and a late-onset ACS group. Following discharge, all patients were followed-up for an average of 23.5±5.3 months. Clinical characteristics, Gensini scores, vascular lesions and adverse cardiovascular events were compared between the two groups. There were no significant differences in smoking, diabetes, ACS composition ratio, baseline treatment of coronary heart disease, high-density lipoprotein level and C-reactive protein levels between the two groups. Sex and hypertriglyceridemia were determined to be independent risk factors of premature ACS, while age, hypertension and a high Gensini score were independent risk factors for adverse cardiovascular events in patients with ACS following PCI. Furthermore, the prevalence of premature ACS was significantly higher in females. Although serum levels of fasting blood glucose, total cholesterol, triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein were also significantly higher in patients with premature ACS compared with patients with late-onset ACS, patients with premature ACS exhibited fewer vascular lesions compared with patients with late-onset ACS. Furthermore, the incidence of adverse cardiovascular events in patients with ACS following PCI did not differ significantly between premature and late-onset ACS groups. Taken together, these results suggest that female patients should be closely observed for early risk factors of premature ACS to prevent and reduce the occurrence of adverse cardiovascular events in patients with ACS following PCI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31281455	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281455	heart+disease
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	Correlation between carotid intima-media roughness and cardiovascular risk factors.	Arterial intima-media roughness (IMR) may indicate an early manifestation of atherosclerosis. To date, few studies have been performed to quantitatively evaluate carotid IMR by ultrasonography (US). The aim of the present study was to analyze the effect of cardiovascular risk factors on carotid IMR. A total of 185 subjects were enrolled for US examination of carotid arteries. Carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) and IMR were measured in US images by a novel automatic software. According to the number of combined high-risk factors for coronary heart disease, subjects were assigned to four groups (risk groups 0, 1, 2 and 3+). IMR was lowest in risk group 0 (32.9±2.7 µm), higher in risk group 1 (64.5±6.9 µm; P<0.01 vs. risk group 0) and highest in risk groups 2 and 3+ (89.1±7.4 and 92.0±6.7 µm, respectively; P<0.01 vs. risk groups 0 and 1). According to a multivariate regression analysis, age, systolic blood pressure, smoking status and the triglyceride/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio were significant predictors of IMR. There was a progressive increase in carotid artery plaque with increasing tertiles of IMR (4.9, 33.9 and 53.2% in tertiles 1, 2 and 3, respectively; P<0.05). Compared with that of subjects in the lowest tertile of IMR, those in the highest tertile had a significantly elevated risk of the presence of plaque in the carotid tree (odds ratio=10.61, 95%CI: 2.15-52.49, P=0.004). Quantification of carotid IMR from US images with this software is feasible, and carotid IMR, which may help estimate the extent of atherosclerosis, may be used as a complementary factor to stratify patients with cardiovascular risk factors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31281436	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281436	heart+disease
Clinical nutrition (Edinburgh, Scotland)	Association between body adiposity index and coronary risk in the Brazilian Longitudinal Study of Adult Health (ELSA-Brasil).	Higher BAI levels were found to be associated with a greater risk of developing CHD in both men and women of different ages participating in the ELSA-Brasil, suggesting that BAI may be a useful tool for screening for CHD risk in Brazilian adults.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31280886	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280886	heart+disease
Australian critical care : official journal of the Confederation of Australian Critical Care Nurses	Outcomes of a randomised pilot trial of a nurse-led clinic for patients after percutaneous coronary intervention.	Overall, findings suggest that nurse-led clinics may be valuable to reduce anxiety and act as a supportive measure in the early post-discharge period until commencement of a secondary prevention program. Further research with a more powered sample is needed to determine the significance of the findings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31280772	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280772	heart+disease
Journal of cardiovascular pharmacology and therapeutics	Efficacy and Safety of Tolvaptan in Patients More Than 90 Years Old With Acute Heart Failure.	The efficacy and safety of tolvaptan in AHF patients aged more than 90 years were comparable to those of <90 years old. Tolvaptan provides a complementary therapeutic option for AHF patients aged more than 90 years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31280620	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280620	heart+disease
The Annals of pharmacotherapy	Comment: Managing Diabetes and Preventing Heart Disease: Have We Found a Safe and Effective Agent?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31280591	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280591	heart+disease
The Israel Medical Association journal : IMAJ	Sex, Ethnicity, and Socioeconomic Status Affect on Israeli Pediatric Lipid Testing Despite Equality in National Healthcare Services.	We found that boys, Arab children, and those with low SES were less likely to be tested. Over time there was a gradual reduction in these disparities. Publicly sponsored healthcare services can diminish disparities in the provision of preventive health among diverse socioeconomic groups that comprise the national population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Israel	31280503	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280503	heart+disease
Cancer causes & control : CCC	Patterns of comorbidities in women with breast cancer: a Canadian population-based study.	Women with breast cancer had a higher risk of developing new comorbidities than women without cancer. Development of coordinated care models to manage multiple chronic diseases among breast cancer patients is warranted.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31280456	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280456	heart+disease
European journal of cardio-thoracic surgery : official journal of the European Association for Cardio-thoracic Surgery	Prediction of complications after paediatric cardiac surgery.	Postoperative complications of paediatric cardiac surgery can be predicted based on perioperative data using our synthetic minority oversampling technique-based XGBoost model before deleterious outcomes ensue.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31280308	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280308	heart+disease
European journal of cardio-thoracic surgery : official journal of the European Association for Cardio-thoracic Surgery	Elastica degeneration and intimal hyperplasia lead to Contegra® conduit failure.	Regression of the elastic fibre network leads to rigidification of the conduit. In Contegra grafts, atherosclerosis-like changes can be considered the leading cause of graft stenosis and insufficiency. We conclude that both observed mechanisms lead to early reoperation in CHD patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31280306	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280306	heart+disease
European journal of public health	Women's excess unhealthy life years: disentangling the unhealthy life years gap.	Lower mortality and higher disability prevalence contributed to women's longer life expectancy with disability. Women's higher disability prevalence due to non-fatal disabling conditions was partly offset by lower disability from heart disease and accidents. Conditions differentially impact gender differences in ULY, depending on whether they are mainly life-threatening or disabling. The conclusions confirm the health-survival paradox.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31280299	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280299	heart+disease
European heart journal cardiovascular Imaging	Multicentre reference values for cardiac magnetic resonance imaging derived ventricular size and function for children aged 0-18 years.	We report volumetric SSFP CMR imaging reference values for children aged 0-18 years old in a relatively large multi-centre cohort. These references can be used in the follow-up of paediatric cardiac disease and for research purposes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31280290	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280290	heart+disease
The Journal of surgical research	Feeding Outcomes in Neonates With Trisomy 21 and Duodenal Atresia.	Our data suggest that a correlation exists between trisomy 21, structural congenital heart anomalies, DA, and the eventual need for gastrostomy. These data should inform operative planning for this patient population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279999	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279999	heart+disease
Journal of obstetrics and gynaecology Canada : JOGC = Journal d'obstetrique et gynecologie du Canada : JOGC	Are Preeclampsia and Adverse Obstetrical Outcomes Predictors of Cardiovascular Disease? - A Case-Control Study of Women With Heart Disease.	Among the adverse maternal conditions, there was more gestational hypertension in women with coronary artery disease. In this study, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy were the most important maternal risk factors for cardiovascular disease later in life and should be flagged early for close monitoring and/or intervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279766	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279766	heart+disease
Journal of the American Society of Echocardiography : official publication of the American Society of Echocardiography	Global Left Ventricular Myocardial Work Efficiency in Healthy Individuals and Patients with Cardiovascular Disease.	While global LV myocardial work efficiency was similar in normal individuals and in those with CV risk factors, it was decreased in postinfarct and HFrEF patients. The global LV myocardial work efficiency values presented here show distinct patterns in different cardiac pathologies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279618	heart+disease
Mayo Clinic proceedings	Burden of Valvular Heart Diseases in Hispanic/Latino Individuals in the United States: The Echocardiographic Study of Latinos.	Our data provide the first population-based estimates of the prevalence of valvular heart disease in Hispanic/Latinos. Valvular heart disease is fairly common in the Hispanic/Latino population and may constitute an important public health problem.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31279542	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279542	heart+disease
Mayo Clinic proceedings	Prognostic Importance and Predictors of Survival in Isolated Tricuspid Regurgitation: A Growing Problem.	Patients with isolated TR are frequently hospitalized for heart failure and experience excess mortality. Elevated right atrial pressure and renal dysfunction are associated with mortality. This poor outcome may have implications for timing of intervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31279540	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279540	heart+disease
Magnetic resonance imaging clinics of North America	The Prognostic Value of Late Gadolinium Enhancement in Nonischemic Heart Disease.	Late gadolinium enhancement (LGE) has become a standard clinical tool to evaluate myocardial fibrosis to define myocardial viability in the context of ischemic myocardial disease. More recently, LGE has also been used to characterize the presence and pattern of fibrosis in nonischemic cardiomyopathies. It yields unique and valuable diagnostic and prognostic insights for myriad nonischemic clinical indications and has become a key part of routine cardiac MR imaging, and a tool to guide treatment. This article reviews the technical aspects of LGE performance and its diagnostic and prognostic implications in nonischemic cardiomyopathy.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31279456	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279456	heart+disease
Magnetic resonance imaging clinics of North America	State-of-the-Art Quantitative Assessment of Myocardial Ischemia by Stress Perfusion Cardiac Magnetic Resonance.	Ischemic heart disease remains the foremost determinant of death and disability across the world. Quantification of the ischemia burden is currently the preferred approach to predict event risk and to trigger adequate treatment. Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) can be a prime protagonist in this scenario due to its synergistic features. It allows assessment of wall motility, myocardial perfusion, and tissue scar by means of late gadolinium enhancement imaging. We discuss the clinical and preclinical aspects of gadolinium-based, perfusion CMR imaging, including the relevance of high spatial resolution and 3-dimensional whole-heart coverage, among important features of this auspicious method.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31279452	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279452	heart+disease
Cardiology clinics	Diabetes/Kidney/Heart Disease.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	Netherlands	31279429	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279429	heart+disease
