 	Urinary Obstruction, Stone Disease, and Infection	Urinary tract infections are a common urologic ailment which affects 150 million people worldwide every year. Even though the diagnosis can be made based upon the patient’s clinical symptoms and the laboratory results in most cases, diagnostic imaging can play a role in the assessment of patients who don’t respond to medical therapy. Ultrasound and multidetector CT are useful imaging modalities in the evaluation of patients with both acute and chronic urologic infection such as either pyelonephritis or renal abscess. MDCT also plays a vital role in the evaluation of patients with symptomatic stone disease. Struvite stones or infection stones develop in patients with recurrent urinary tract infections. Potential complications can arise from chronic infection stones, such as chronic obstructive pyelonephritis, pyonephrosis, xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis, and end-stage renal replacement lipomatosis. In this section, we discuss urologic infections such as pyelonephritis, pyonephrosis, renal abscess, pyelonephritis, emphysematous pyelonephritis, and renal tuberculosis as well as complications of infected renal stones.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314368	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314368	tuberculosis
 	 	As America's most populous state goes, so goes the nation. And within that state, the 38 counties comprising South Texas--a highly populated, largely Hispanic area characterized by high uninsured rates and low numbers of health care providers--are emblematic of nationwide crises in public health. The South Texas Health Status Review: A Health Disparities Roadmap brings health care disparities to light in instructive detail. Over thirty key health conditions and risk factors, such as breast cancer, diabetes, obesity, tuberculosis, smoking and alcohol use, lead exposure, birth defects, and homicide rates, are analyzed by age, sex, race/ethnicity, and location (urban or rural), and the results compared with the rest of Texas and the nation as a whole. A section on conclusions and recommendations outlines factors contributing to these conditions and offers suggestions for improvement. These important data should stimulate further population studies and provide impetus for targeted public health interventions and community outreach programs to reduce health inequities and advance care access in the state and the U.S. at large. Major health issues covered in the report include: • Communicable diseases • Cancer incidence and mortality • Maternal and child health • Chronic diseases • Behavioral risk factors in adults • Environmental health issues • Suicide, homicide, and vehicular mortality. The South Texas Health Status Review contains valuable lessons for researchers in health promotion and health disparities, as well as community health professionals. Policymakers involved in reducing health disparities will find it especially useful.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314218	tuberculosis
Virus research	Prophylactic antiviral treatment reduces the incidence of liver failure among patients coinfected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and hepatitis B virus.	Prophylactic antiviral treatment reduces the incidence of liver failure in patients coinfected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and hepatitis B virus; therefore, it is recommended that prophylactic antiviral treatment be administered while receiving anti-tuberculosis treatment in patients coinfected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and hepatitis B virus.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31315023	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315023	tuberculosis
The New England journal of medicine	HIV Testing and Treatment with the Use of a Community Health Approach in Rural Africa.	Universal HIV treatment did not result in a significantly lower incidence of HIV infection than standard care, probably owing to the availability of comprehensive baseline HIV testing and the rapid expansion of ART eligibility in the control group. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and others; SEARCH ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01864603.).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314966	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314966	tuberculosis
Tropical medicine & international health : TM & IH	Spatial distribution of tuberculosis and its socioeconomic influencing factors in mainland China 2013-2016.	Spatial clustering of TB incidence in mainland China still exists. The differences of socio-economic factors in different locations can be confirmed by GWR model. Targeted preventive and control measures or policies will be conducive to effectively reducing the incidence of TB, especially in hot spots. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314953	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314953	tuberculosis
The Permanente journal	Pseudomyxoma Peritonei-An Unusual Cause of Ascites: A Case Report.	Pseudomyxoma peritonei is a rare cause of low SAAG ascites. It is characterized by the deposition of mucinous material on the peritoneal surfaces. The most common site of origin is the appendix, although it can arise from other intraabdominal organs as well. Excision of the tumor combined with intraperitoneal chemotherapy is the preferred modality of treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314718	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314718	tuberculosis
Infectious diseases (London, England)	Comparison of MIRU-VNTR genotyping between old and fresh clinical samples in tuberculosis.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314640	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314640	tuberculosis
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Depression: A Neglected Comorbidity in Patients with Tuberculosis.	There is high prevalence of depression among TB patients. It is more common in males and alcoholics. Patients who are in the first four months of the treatment are more likely to have depression. There should be regular screening of the patients with TB for psychiatric illness during the course of the treatment for better treatment compliance and outcome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31313544	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313544	tuberculosis
IDCases	Symptomatic central nervous system tuberculoma, a case report in the United States and literature review.	Intracranial tuberculoma is one of the rare central nervous system manifestations of 	2019	eng	Case Reports	Netherlands	31312602	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312602	tuberculosis
Respiratory medicine case reports	A case of concomitant bronchial AnthracoFibrosis and tuberculosis presented as asthma-COPD- overlaps syndrome (ACOS).	In this article we present a case of a 75-year-old nonsmoker woman who was misdiagnosed as asthma-chronic obstructive airway disease overlap. The patient's history, examination and investigation confirmed the diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB) and anthracofibrosis (AFB). Our case demonstrates the difficulties that clinicians face with when patients present with chronic wheeze without any other specific symptoms at the outset.	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31312596	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312596	tuberculosis
American journal of translational research	Clinical profile and surgical outcome for different types of chronic pulmonary aspergillosis.	Surgery is needed in some patients with refractory CPA. We consider that SAIA and CCPA patients may benefit from perioperative antifungal therapy. However, due to the limited number of patients in this study, more evidence is needed to draw a conclusion about this issue.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312378	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312378	tuberculosis
The Pan African medical journal	Effect of HIV infection on TB treatment outcomes and time to mortality in two urban hospitals in Ghana-a retrospective cohort study.	The uptake of ART in co-infected individuals in this study was very low. Measures should be put in place to improve ART coverage among persons with TB/HIV co-infection to help reduce mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312318	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312318	tuberculosis
The Pan African medical journal	[Multidrug-resistant extrapulmonary tuberculosis: about 7 cases].	Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is a major challenge for the World Health Organization. Its growing incidence and the diagnostic and therapeutic difficulties make it a public health problem especially in the developing countries. We report two cases of extrapulmonary drug-resistant tuberculosis (nodal and osteo-articular) and five cases of pulmonary tuberculosis and extra-pulmonary tuberculosis (pleural, nodal, anal and neuro-meningeal) in hospitalized patients at the Hopital Moulay Youssef in Rabat. This study reports the issue of drug-resistant TB and highlights the role of genotypic tests in the diagnosis of extrapulmonary tuberculosis.	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31312308	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312308	tuberculosis
Frontiers in immunology	Human Antimicrobial RNases Inhibit Intracellular Bacterial Growth and Induce Autophagy in Mycobacteria-Infected Macrophages.	The development of novel treatment against tuberculosis is a priority global health challenge. Antimicrobial proteins and peptides offer a multifaceted mechanism suitable to fight bacterial resistance. Within the RNaseA superfamily there is a group of highly cationic proteins secreted by innate immune cells with anti-infective and immune-regulatory properties. In this work, we have tested the human canonical members of the RNase family using a spot-culture growth inhibition assay based mycobacteria-infected macrophage model for evaluating their anti-tubercular properties. Out of the seven tested recombinant human RNases, we have identified two members, RNase3 and RNase6, which were highly effective against 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312205	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312205	tuberculosis
Scientific reports	Mechanism of catalysis and inhibition of Mycobacterium tuberculosis SapM, implications for the development of novel antivirulence drugs.	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) SapM is a secreted virulence factor critical for intracellular survival of the pathogen. The role of SapM in phagosome maturation arrest in host macrophages suggests its potential as a drug target to assist in the clearance of tuberculosis infection. However, the mechanism of action of SapM at the molecular level remains unknown. In this study, we provide new insights into the mechanism of catalysis, substrate specificity and inhibition of SapM, and we identify the critical residues for catalysis and substrate binding. Our findings demonstrate that SapM is an atypical monoester alkaline phosphatase, with a serine-based mechanism of catalysis probably metal-dependent. Particularly relevant to SapM function and pathogenesis, is its activity towards PI(4,5)P	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312014	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312014	tuberculosis
Scientific reports	Identification and Characterization of Genetic Determinants of Isoniazid and Rifampicin Resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Southern India.	Drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB), one of the leading causes of death worldwide, arises mainly from spontaneous mutations in the genome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. There is an urgent need to understand the mechanisms by which the mutations confer resistance in order to identify new drug targets and to design new drugs. Previous studies have reported numerous mutations that confer resistance to anti-TB drugs, but there has been little systematic analysis to understand their genetic background and the potential impacts on the drug target stability and/or interactions. Here, we report the analysis of whole-genome sequence data for 98 clinical M. tuberculosis isolates from a city in southern India. The collection was screened for phenotypic resistance and sequenced to mine the genetic mutations conferring resistance to isoniazid and rifampicin. The most frequent mutation among isoniazid and rifampicin isolates was S315T in katG and S450L in rpoB respectively. The impacts of mutations on protein stability, protein-protein interactions and protein-ligand interactions were analysed using both statistical and machine-learning approaches. Drug-resistant mutations were predicted not only to target active sites in an orthosteric manner, but also to act through allosteric mechanisms arising from distant sites, sometimes at the protein-protein interface.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311987	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311987	tuberculosis
The Journal of biological chemistry	Kinetics of formation and reactivity of the persulfide in the one-cysteine peroxiredoxin from 	Hydrogen sulfide (H	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311857	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311857	tuberculosis
Preventive veterinary medicine	Parallel measurement of IFN-γ and IP-10 in QuantiFERON®-TB Gold (QFT) plasma improves the detection of Mycobacterium bovis infection in African buffaloes (Syncerus caffer).	The QuantiFERON®-TB Gold (QFT) stimulation platform for cytokine release is a novel approach for diagnosis of bovine tuberculosis in wildlife species. Plasma interferon gamma (IFN-γ) is routinely measured to detect immune sensitization to Mycobacterium bovis. However, the cytokine interferon gamma-inducible protein 10 (IP-10) has been proposed as an alternative, more sensitive, diagnostic biomarker. In this study, we investigated the use of the QFT system with measurement of IFN-γ and IP-10 in parallel to identify M. bovis-infected African buffaloes. The test results of either biomarker in a cohort of M. bovis-unexposed buffaloes (n = 70) led to calculation of 100% test specificity. Furthermore, in cohorts of M. bovis culture-positive (n = 51) and M. bovis-suspect (n = 22) buffaloes, the IP-10 test results were positive in a greater number of animals than the number based on the IFN-γ test results. Most notably, when the biomarkers were measured in parallel, the tests identified all M. bovis culture-positive buffaloes, a result neither the single comparative intradermal tuberculin test (SCITT) nor Bovigam® IFN-γ release assay (IGRA) achieved, individually or in parallel. These findings demonstrate the diagnostic potential of this blood-based assay to identify M. bovis-infected African buffaloes and a strategy to maximise the detection of infected animals while maintaining diagnostic specificity and simplifying test procedures.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31311648	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311648	tuberculosis
BMC infectious diseases	Interaction of nutritional status and diabetes on active and latent tuberculosis: a cross-sectional analysis.	BMI and diabetes are associated with newly diagnosed active TB, but not LTBI. Diabetes conferred the greatest risk of active TB in overweight and obese adults whereas the burden of active TB associated with diabetes was similar for normal and overweight or obese adults. Hyperglycemia was common among all active TB patients. These findings highlight the importance of bi-directional diabetes-active TB screening in India.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311495	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311495	tuberculosis
Proceedings. Biological sciences	Risk alleles for tuberculosis infection associate with reduced immune reactivity in a wild mammalian host.	Integrating biological processes across scales remains a central challenge in disease ecology. Genetic variation drives differences in host immune responses, which, along with environmental factors, generates temporal and spatial infection patterns in natural populations that epidemiologists seek to predict and control. However, genetics and immunology are typically studied in model systems, whereas population-level patterns of infection status and susceptibility are uniquely observable in nature. Despite obvious causal connections, organizational scales from genes to host outcomes to population patterns are rarely linked explicitly. Here we identify two loci near genes involved in macrophage (phagocyte) activation and pathogen degradation that additively increase risk of bovine tuberculosis infection by up to ninefold in wild African buffalo. Furthermore, we observe genotype-specific variation in IL-12 production indicative of variation in macrophage activation. Here, we provide measurable differences in infection resistance at multiple scales by characterizing the genetic and inflammatory variation driving patterns of infection in a wild mammal.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311473	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311473	tuberculosis
Environmental technology	A promising technology based on photoelectrocatalysis against 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311444	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311444	tuberculosis
The International journal of health planning and management	A review of the incidence and determinants of catastrophic health expenditure in Nigeria: Implications for universal health coverage.	There is a high incidence of CHE across various common health conditions in Nigeria. CHE was more among the poor, elderly, rural dwellers, private facility utilization, female gender, and noninsured among others. We recommend expansion of the National Health Insurance Scheme via informal social and financing networks platforms. Increased budgetary allocation to health and intersectoral collaboration will also play a significant role in CHE reduction.	2019	eng	Review	England	31311065	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311065	tuberculosis
Handchirurgie, Mikrochirurgie, plastische Chirurgie : Organ der Deutschsprachigen Arbeitsgemeinschaft fur Handchirurgie : Organ der Deutschsprachigen Arbeitsgemeinschaft fur Mikrochirurgie der Peripheren Nerven und Gefasse : Organ der V...	[Osseous Tuberculosis - interdisciplinary treatment from diagnostics to microsurgical defect reconstruction - Case report and review of the literature and proposal of a therapeutic algorithm].	Die Tuberkulose stellt mit jährlich 10 Millionen neuen Fällen und über einer Million Toten im Jahr ein zentrales globales Problem dar. Eine Knochentuberkulose stellt dem gegenüber als extrem selten auftretende Form der Tuberkulose eine besondere Herausforderung hinsichtlich der Diagnosestellung sowie der Sanierung und Defektdeckung von tiefgreifenden Defekten im Bereich der Extremitäten dar. Für Mitteleuropa stellt sich vor dem Hintergrund vermehrter Migration und ansteigender Zahlen von Tuberkulosefällen verstärkt die Frage nach einer sicheren Diagnose, Therapie und Schutzmaßnahmen im Umgang mit dem Patienten.Im vorliegenden Fall, einer 49-jährigen Frau aus Pakistan, erfolgte eine erstmalige Vorstellung mit dem klinischen Bild eines Exanthems auf Höhe des oberen Sprunggelenkes mit radiologischen Zeichen einer Osteolyse. Die pathologische und molekularpathologische Diagnostik erbrachte den Nachweis einer Infektion durch einen Erreger des M. tuberculosis-Komplexes. In der Initialphase über 6 Wochen erfolgte die leitliniengerechte 4fach-Therapie mit Isoniazid (INH), Rifampicin (RMP), Pyrazinamid (PZA) und Ethambutol (EMB) und in der anschließenden Kontinuitätsphase die 2fach-Therapie mit INH und RMP für 12 Monate.14 Monate später, erfolgte bei Rezidiv-Abszess die erneute stationäre Aufnahme, mit der Fortführung der tuberkulostatischen Therapie als Vierfach-Kombination aus INH, RMP, PZA und EMB für 6 Wochen und als Zweifachkombination INH und RMP für insgesamt ein Jahr.Nach Sanierung des Abszesses erfolgte die Ruhigstellung des Gelenkes mittels Sprunggelenks-Arthrodese und schließlich die Defektdeckung der tiefgreifenden Nekrose am rechten Sprunggelenk durch einen freien M. gracilis-Lappenplastik durch die Plastische Chirurgie.In dem hier beschriebenen Fall erfolgte die suffiziente ossäre Versorgung sowie Weichgewebsdeckung in einem Schwerpunktkrankenhaus durch die Zusammenarbeit der Infektiologie, der orthopädisch-unfallchirurgischen und der plastisch-chirurgischen Abteilung. Der knöcherne Defekt konnte so saniert, der Weichgewebsdefekt gedeckt und letztlich der Extremitätenerhalt gesichert werden. Im Rahmen dieses Fallbeispiels soll aufgrund der zunehmenden Relevanz dieser Entität ein umfassender Überblick über die relevante aktuelle Literatur gegeben werden und ein Therapie-Algorithmus abgeleitet werden.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31311057	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311057	tuberculosis
Cytokine	Genetic variants in IFNG and IFNGR1 and tuberculosis susceptibility.	IFNG rs1861494 polymorphism was associated with TB, particularly in the younger and male subgroups.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310896	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310896	tuberculosis
Travel medicine and infectious disease	Management of hospitalized drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis patients during the Hajj mass gathering: A cross sectional study.	Healthcare providers training and supervision are paramount to improve their knowledge and skill and ensure their compliance with existing TB management guidelines. However, there may be a need for the introduction of an international policy/guideline for TB control and management during mass gatherings such as the Hajj to guide providers' choices and facilitate monitoring.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310852	tuberculosis
Clinica chimica acta; international journal of clinical chemistry	Hybrid panel of biomarkers can be useful in the diagnosis of pleural and peritoneal effusions.	CEA, NGAL, ADA and IFNy were useful in discriminating ME and TPE. However, for NTBIE diagnosis, the hybrid panel did not demonstrate advantages over the classic parameters.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310745	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310745	tuberculosis
Emerging infectious diseases	Intact Mycobacterium leprae Isolated from Placenta of a Pregnant Woman, China.	Whether Mycobacterium leprae transmits from placenta to fetus remains unknown. We describe the case of a pregnant woman with untreated histoid leproma. Although her newborn was healthy, laboratory examination revealed intact M. leprae present in the placenta, suggesting that the placental barrier might prevent vertical dissemination of M. leprae.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310204	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310204	tuberculosis
Tropical medicine & international health : TM & IH	Decreased risk of HIV-associated TB during antiretroviral therapy expansion in rural Eswatini from 2009 to 2016: a cohort and population-based analysis.	This high HIV-TB prevalence setting experienced a rapid decline in TB notifications, most pronounced in PLHIV. Achievements in HIV-TB programing were likely contributing factors. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310029	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310029	tuberculosis
ACS infectious diseases	Semisynthetic Antimycobacterial C-3 Silicate and C-3/ C-21 Ester Derivatives of Fusidic Acid: Pharmacological Evaluation and Stability Studies in Liver Microsomes, Rat Plasma and Mycobacterium tuberculosis culture.	Fusidic acid (FA), a natural product fusidane triterpene-based antibiotic with unique structural features, is active in vitro against Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the causative agent of tuberculosis (TB). While possessing good pharmacokinetics in man, FA is rapidly metabolized in rodents - thus complicating proof-of-concept studies in this model. Towards the repositioning of FA as an anti-TB agent, we herein describe the synthesis, activity and metabolism of FA and semi-synthesized ester derivatives in rat liver microsomes, rat plasma and mycobacterial cell culture. FA and derivative molecules with a free C-3 OH underwent species-specific metabolism to the corresponding 3-OH epimer, 3-epifusidic acid (3-epiFA). FA was also metabolized in rat plasma to form FA lactone. These additional routes of metabolism may contribute to the more rapid clearance of FA observed in rodents. C-3 alkyl and aryl esters functioned as classic prodrugs of FA, being hydrolyzed to FA in microsomes, plasma and Mycobacterium tuberculosis culture. In contrast, C-3 silicate esters and C-21 esters were inert to hydrolysis and so did not act as prodrugs. The antimycobacterial activity of the C-3 silicate esters was comparable to that of FA and these compounds were stable in microsomes and plasma, identifying them as potential candidates for evaluation in a rodent model of tuberculosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309823	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309823	tuberculosis
Pediatric dermatology	Disseminated Bacille Calmette-Guérin infection in a patient with severe combined immunodeficiency caused by JAK3 gene mutation.	Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG), a live attenuated vaccine prepared using Mycobacterium bovis, can prevent tuberculosis in children and is routinely administered to infants in China and many other countries. A serious complication following vaccination is disseminated BCG infection. The risk is greatly increased in patients with severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID), a syndrome characterized by deficiency of both humoral and cellular immunity. We report a case of disseminated BCG infection in an infant with SCID caused by two novel janus kinase 3 (JAK3) gene mutations.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31309596	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309596	tuberculosis
Gynecologic oncology reports	Cervical cancer in Tanzania: A systematic review of current challenges in six domains.	Cervical cancer is the most common cancer in Tanzania. After excluding human immunodeficiency virus, lower respiratory infections, malaria, diarrheal diseases, and tuberculosis, cervical cancer kills more women than any other form of illness in the country. Unfortunately, Tanzania has a low doctor-to-patient ratio (1:50,000) and nearly 7000 women die each year from this disease. The clinical problem is further magnified by the country's lack of resources and prevailing poverty, sporadic cervical cancer screening, prevalence of high-risk oncogenic human papillomavirus subtypes, and relatively high rates of human immunodeficiency virus co-infection. In recent years, addressing the cervical cancer problem has become a priority for the Tanzanian government. In this systematic review of 39 peer-reviewed publications that appeared in the PubMed/MEDLINE (NCBI) database from 2013 to 2018, we synthesize the growing body of literature to capture current trends in Tanzania's evolving cervical cancer landscape. Six domains were identified, including risk factors, primary prevention, barriers to screening, treatment, healthcare worker education, and sustainability. In addition to traditional risk factors associated with sexual behavior, acetowhite changes observed during visual inspection of the cervix with acetic acid, lower education, rural setting, and HIV positivity also have a noteworthy clinical impact.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31309135	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309135	tuberculosis
Blood research	First case report of latent tuberculosis reactivation complicating treatment with nilotinib in chronic myeloid leukemia.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31309096	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309096	tuberculosis
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	Outcomes of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in HIV-infected patients when using systemic steroids and/or intravenous immunoglobulins in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa.	HIV-infected SJS and TEN patients were treated in a tertiary dermatology ward with a treatment plan of skin care, and a combination of systemic corticosteroids and IVIG respectively had a survival rate of 97%.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308970	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308970	tuberculosis
The Pan African medical journal	Factors associated with unfavourable tuberculosis treatment outcomes in Lusaka, Zambia, 2015: a secondary analysis of routine surveillance data.	Unfavourable TB treatment outcomes were high in the selected facilities. We recommend special attention to TB patients who are > 59 years old, TB relapses and TB / HIV co-infected. The national TB programme should strengthen close monitoring of health facilities in increasing efforts aimed at evaluating all the outcomes. Studies are required to identify and test interventions aimed at improving treatment outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31308862	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308862	tuberculosis
Infection and drug resistance	Evaluating the clinical significance of nontuberculous mycobacteria isolated from respiratory samples in Iran: an often overlooked disease.	We reported five different NTM isolates in respiratory samples with a high frequency of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308711	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308711	tuberculosis
Arerugi = [Allergy]	[PARADOXICAL RESPONSE DURING TREATMENT OF PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS].	Low albumin and chest radiographic appearance exceeding one-lung area were risk factors for developing PR. Diffuse pulmonary infiltrates in early phase of anti-tuberculosis treatment was related with Inhospital mortality.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308335	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308335	tuberculosis
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)	Cutting Edge: Bacillus Calmette-Guérin-Induced T Cells Shape 	Growing evidence suggests the outcome of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308091	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308091	tuberculosis
British journal of neurosurgery	Paralytic ileus in the patient with tuberculosis of spine.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307238	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307238	tuberculosis
Clinical laboratory	Evaluation of the Diagnostic Efficacy of Monocyte Parameters and MCP-1 to Distinguishing Active Tuberculosis from Latent Tuberculosis.	The findings using monocyte morphometric parameters and MCP-1 to distinguish ATB from LTBI with high sensitivity and specificity may be a potential parameter for clinical.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31307161	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307161	tuberculosis
Medicine	Erratum: Gender-Based Impact of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Mutation in Patients With Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer and Previous Tuberculosis: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000444.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305730	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305730	tuberculosis
Environmental research	A time-trend ecological study for identifying flood-sensitive infectious diseases in Guangxi, China from 2005 to 2012.	The spectrum of infectious diseases which are associated with floods are bacillary dysentery, AHC, influenza A (H	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306984	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306984	tuberculosis
Genomics	Tuberculosis infection and lung adenocarcinoma: Mendelian randomization and pathway analysis of genome-wide association study data from never-smoking Asian women.	We investigated whether genetic susceptibility to tuberculosis (TB) influences lung adenocarcinoma development among never-smokers using TB genome-wide association study (GWAS) results within the Female Lung Cancer Consortium in Asia. Pathway analysis with the adaptive rank truncated product method was used to assess the association between a TB-related gene-set and lung adenocarcinoma using GWAS data from 5512 lung adenocarcinoma cases and 6277 controls. The gene-set consisted of 31 genes containing known/suggestive associations with genetic variants from previous TB-GWAS. Subsequently, we followed-up with Mendelian Randomization to evaluate the association between TB and lung adenocarcinoma using three genome-wide significant variants from previous TB-GWAS in East Asians. The TB-related gene-set was associated with lung adenocarcinoma (p = 0.016). Additionally, the Mendelian Randomization showed an association between TB and lung adenocarcinoma (OR = 1.31, 95% CI: 1.03, 1.66, p = 0.027). Our findings support TB as a causal risk factor for lung cancer development among never-smoking Asian women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306748	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306748	tuberculosis
PloS one	Multinomial modelling of TB/HIV co-infection yields a robust predictive signature and generates hypotheses about the HIV+TB+ disease state.	By explicitly including distinct disease states within the machine learning analysis framework, we developed a compact and highly diagnostic signature that simultaneously discriminates multiple disease states associated with Mtb/HIV co-infection. Examination of the expression patterns of signature genes suggests mechanisms underlying the unique inflammatory conditions associated with active TB in the presence of HIV. In particular, we observed that dysregulation of CD8+ effector T-cell and NK-cell associated genes may be an important feature of Mtb/HIV co-infection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306460	tuberculosis
PloS one	Characterization of the GH13 and GH57 glycogen branching enzymes from Petrotoga mobilis SJ95 and potential role in glycogen biosynthesis.	Glycogen is a highly branched α-glucan polymer widely used as energy and carbon reserve by many microorganisms. The branches are introduced by glycogen branching enzymes (EC 2.4.1.18), that are classified into glycoside hydrolase families 13 (GH13) and 57 (GH57). Most microorganisms have typically only a single glycogen branching enzyme (gbe) gene. Only a few microorganisms carry both GH13 and GH57 gbe genes, such as Petrotoga mobilis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Here we report the basic characteristics of the GH13 and GH57 GBE of P. mobilis, both heterologously expressed in E. coli. The GH13 GBE has a considerably higher branching activity towards the linear α-glucan amylose, and produces a highly branched α-glucan with a high molecular weight which is very similar to glycogen. The GH57 GBE, on the contrary, makes a much smaller branched α-glucan. While the GH13 GBE acts as a classical glycogen branching enzyme involved in glycogen synthesis, the role of GH57 GBE remains unclear.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306450	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306450	tuberculosis
PloS one	Image processing for AFB segmentation in bacilloscopies of pulmonary tuberculosis diagnosis.	Image segmentation applied to medical image analysis is still a critical and important task. Although there exist several segmentation algorithms that have been widely studied in literature, these are subject to segmentation problems such as over- and under-segmentation as well as non-closed edges. In this paper, a simple method that combines well-known segmentation algorithms is presented. This method is applied to detect acid-fast bacilli (AFB) in bacilloscopies used to diagnose pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). This diagnosis can be performed through different tests, and the most used worldwide is smear microscopy because of its low cost and effectiveness. This diagnosis technique is based on the analysis and counting of the bacilli in the bacilloscopy observed under an optical microscope. The proposed method is used to segment the bacilli in digital images from bacilloscopies processed using Ziehl-Neelsen (ZN) staining. The proposed method is fast, has a low computational cost and good efficiency compared to other methods. The bacilli image segmentation is performed by image processing and analysis techniques, probability concepts and classifiers. In this work, a Bayesian classifier based on a Gaussian mixture model (GMM) is used. The segmentations' results are validated by using the Jaccard index, which indicates the efficiency of the classifier.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306434	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306434	tuberculosis
PloS one	Atypical granuloma formation in Mycobacterium bovis-infected calves.	Bovine tuberculosis is a chronic inflammatory disease that causes granuloma formation. Characterization of granulomatous lesions of Mycobacterium bovis (M. bovis) experimentally infected cattle has helped to better understand the pathogenesis of this disease. However, few studies have described granulomas found in M. bovis naturally infected cattle. The aim of this work was to examine granulomas from Holstein-Friesian cattle naturally infected with M. bovis from a dairy basin located in the central region of Mexico. Tissue samples from thirty-two cattle with lesions suggestive of tuberculosis were collected post-mortem. Fifteen of the 32 sampled animals (46.8%) were 4 months of age or younger (calves), whereas the rest (53.2%, 17/32) were over one year old (adults). Macroscopic lesions suggestive of tuberculosis were found in the mediastinal lymph node chain of all animals (32/32). From the 1,143 granulomatous lesions that were microscopically analyzed, 34.6% (396/1143) were collected from adult animals and subsequently classified according to the nomenclature suggested by Wangoo et al., 2005. Surprisingly, lesions from calf tissues showed an atypical pattern which could not be fitted into the established developmental stages of this classification. Granulomatous lesions found in calves covered most of the affected organ, histologically showed large necrotic areas with central calcification, absence of a connective tissue capsule, and few giant cells. Also, there was a higher percentage of lesions with acid-fast bacilli (AFB) when compared to studied granulomas in adults. Growth of Mycobacterium spp was detected in 11 bacteriological tissue cultures. Genotypic identification of M. bovis was performed by DNA extraction from bacterial isolates, formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues and samples without bacterial isolation. M. bovis was detected by PCR in 84.3% (27/32) of the studied cases; whereas other AFB were observed in tissues of the remaining sampled animals (5/32). Our results describe atypical granuloma formation in calves 4 months of age or younger, naturally infected with M. bovis. These findings contribute to better understanding the physiopathology of M. bovis infection in cattle.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306432	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306432	tuberculosis
PLoS neglected tropical diseases	Genotype diversity and distribution of Mycobacterium bovis from livestock in a small, high-risk area in northeastern Sicily, Italy.	Bovine tuberculosis (bTB) caused by Mycobacterium bovis is an important re-emerging disease affecting livestock, wildlife and humans. Epidemiological studies are crucial to identifying the source of bTB infection, and its transmission dynamics and host preference, and thus to the implementation of effective strategies to contain it. In this study, we typed M. bovis isolates from livestock, and investigated their genetic diversity and distribution. A total of 204 M. bovis isolates were collected from cattle (n = 164) and Sicilian black pigs (n = 40) reared in a limited area of the province of Messina, northeastern Sicily, an area that had previously been identified as having the highest incidence of bTB in livestock on the island. All M. bovis isolates were typed by both spoligotyping and 12-loci MIRU-VNTR analysis. Results from both methods were then combined in order to improve the discriminatory power of M. bovis typing. We identified 73 combined genetic profiles. Thirty-five point six percent of the profiles were common to at least two animals, whereas 64.4% of profiles occurred in only one animal. A number of genetic profiles were predominant in either cattle or black pigs. We identified common genetic patterns in M. bovis isolates originating not only from neighboring districts, but also from non-neighboring districts. Our findings suggest that bTB is widespread in our setting, and is caused by a large number of genetically diverse M. bovis strains. The ecology and farming practices characteristic of the area may explain the substantial M. bovis heterogeneity observed, and could represent obstacles to bTB eradication.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306431	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306431	tuberculosis
Chinese medical journal	Oncocytic carcinoid tumor of the lung complicated by tuberculosis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31306231	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306231	tuberculosis
The new microbiologica	Uncommon testicular localization of Disseminated TB: a case report from Mozambique.	Tuberculosis (TB) of the testicle is a rarely reported and poorly described disease localization. There are no well-defined clinical features suggestive of testicular TB, which makes the diagnosis difficult to establish, especially in low-income settings like Mozambique, where TB is endemic and often associated with HIV-infection; both considered leading causes of death worldwide. We reported the case of a 45-year-old male, HIV positive, naïve to antiretroviral treatment, admitted to the Department of Medicine of the Central Hospital of Beira to investigate chronic enlargement of the testicles.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31305938	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305938	tuberculosis
Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE	Use of the Invertebrate Galleria mellonella as an Infection Model to Study the Mycobacterium tuberculosis Complex.	Tuberculosis is the leading global cause of infectious disease mortality and roughly a quarter of the world's population is believed to be infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Despite decades of research, many of the mechanisms behind the success of M. tuberculosis as a pathogenic organism remain to be investigated, and the development of safer, more effective antimycobacterial drugs are urgently needed to tackle the rise and spread of drug resistant tuberculosis. However, the progression of tuberculosis research is bottlenecked by traditional mammalian infection models that are expensive, time consuming, and ethically challenging. Previously we established the larvae of the insect Galleria mellonella (greater wax moth) as a novel, reproducible, low cost, high-throughput and ethically acceptable infection model for members of the M. tuberculosis complex. Here we describe the maintenance, preparation, and infection of G. mellonella with bioluminescent Mycobacterium bovis BCG lux. Using this infection model, mycobacterial dose dependent virulence can be observed, and a rapid readout of in vivo mycobacterial burden using bioluminescence measurements is easily achievable and reproducible. Although limitations exist, such as the lack of a fully annotated genome for transcriptomic analysis, ontological analysis against genetically similar insects can be carried out. As a low cost, rapid, and ethically acceptable model for tuberculosis, G. mellonella can be used as a pre-screen to determine drug efficacy and toxicity, and to determine comparative mycobacterial virulence prior to the use of conventional mammalian models. The use of the G. mellonella-mycobacteria model will lead to a reduction in the substantial number of animals currently used in tuberculosis research.	2019	eng	Video-Audio Media	United States	31305513	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305513	tuberculosis
Medicine	Cryptococcal pleuritis with pleural effusion as the only clinical presentation in a patient with hepatic cirrhosis: A case report and literature review.	Similar cases in cryptococcal pleuritis patients with pleural effusion as the only clinical presentation in the literature are also reviewed. Through literature review, we recommend that pleural effusion cryptococcal antigen test should be used to diagnose cryptococcal pleuritis to reduce misdiagnosis. The early administration of antifungal drug with activity to Cryptococcus seemed beneficial in preventing dissemination of cryptococcosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305427	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305427	tuberculosis
Journal of the Chinese Medical Association : JCMA	Pulmonary Tuberculous Cavities in Diabetic Patients: Glycemic Control is Still the Dominant Factor Despite the Emerging Role of Metformin.	This study suggests that despite multiple potential confounding variables, including metformin use, poor glycemic control is still the dominant risk factor for cavitary lesions in diabetic patients with PTB. Efforts to improve glycemic control in diabetic PTB patients may be of considerable value in facilitating antimycobacterial treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31305342	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305342	tuberculosis
Journal of computational biology : a journal of computational molecular cell biology	Bioinformatics Analysis of Differentially Expressed Genes, Methylated Genes, and miRNAs in Unexplained Recurrent Spontaneous Abortion.	
                    	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305134	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305134	tuberculosis
International journal of environmental health research	Molecular characterization and antimicrobial resistance profiles of 	This study analysed 330 environmental substrates from three dairy farms for the occurrence, drug resistance and the genetic mutations of MTBC (	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305130	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305130	tuberculosis
Zhong nan da xue xue bao. Yi xue ban = Journal of Central South University. Medical sciences	Transumbilical endoscopic surgery in the diagnosis of ascites of unknown origin.	目的：探讨经脐内镜手术(transumbilical endoscopic surgery，TUES)是否可有效、安全地应用于不明原因腹水的诊断。方法：回顾性分析了2014年1月至2016年1月在中南大学湘雅三医院消化内科应用TUES的23例不明原因腹水病例。收集治疗前患者的临床表现、实验室检查、放射学检查和内镜检查结果等资料，仔细记录内镜下腹腔的情况、最终诊断和预后。结果：23例患者均成功完成TUES，手术时间为(58.2±13.9) min。22名患者腹腔内发现结节或肿块并进行活检，明确病因，其中最常见的原因是结核病(8例)，其次是腹膜癌(6例)，腹膜假性黏液瘤(5例)。无1例发生术后出血、穿孔、腹膜炎、慢性腹腔脓肿等手术相关并发症，仅1例术后24 h出现短暂的中度发热；无1例发生与TUES相关的死亡。结论：TUES结合活组织检查可以有效地明确不明原因腹水的病因。.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31304924	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304924	tuberculosis
MedChemComm	Novel antimycobacterial C-21 amide derivatives of the antibiotic fusidic acid: synthesis, pharmacological evaluation and rationalization of media-dependent activity using molecular docking studies in the binding site of human serum albumin.	Fusidic acid is a natural product antibiotic used clinically, primarily against staphylococcal infections. It has also exhibited antimycobacterial activity against 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303994	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303994	tuberculosis
MedChemComm	Anthranilic amide and imidazobenzothiadiazole compounds disrupt 	A family of compounds typified by an anthranilic amide 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303991	tuberculosis
The Pan African medical journal	A case of bilateral thalamic infarct complicating tuberculous meningoencephalitis.	Ischemic stroke can result from multiple etiologies. It can also be a complication of tuberculous meningoencephalitis and determine its outcome. stroke secondary to tuberculous meningoencephalitis, occurs in 30% cases in the basal ganglia region, unusually in the thalamus. The mechanism of stroke in this condition is vasculitis. We report an unusual case of bilateral thalamic infarcts complicating tuberculous meningoencephalitis. Ischemic stroke in tuberculous meningoencephalitis is unpredictable with poor prognosis despite antituberculous drug treatment, emphasising the importance of primary prevention, particularly in tuberculosis endemic areas.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Uganda	31303947	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303947	tuberculosis
The Pan African medical journal	[Cerebral tuberculoma a diagnostic challenge: case study and update].	Central nervous system (CNS) tuberculosis is the second most common presentation after tuberculous meningitis. It is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the developing countries, accounting for 10-30% of intracranial expansive lesions in these countries against 0.2% in some Western countries. This study aims to report an atypical clinical and radiological manifestation (brain MRI and spectroscopy) of cerebral tuberculoma in order to provide an update on this infectious disease. The study involved a 44-year old female patient with no particular previous history, with headaches persisting for 1 year and complicated by partial secondarily generalized seizures and heaviness at the left hemicorpus with episodes of vomiting without visual disorder or fever or deterioration of general condition after 8 months. Clinical examination showed conscious patient with Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) 15, equal and reactive pupils, walking and/or standing without fault, with 4/5 left-sided hemiparesis without other neurological signs. Brain MRI objectified right parietal subtentorial plurilobulated isointense poorly differentiated lesion on T1 weighted sequence without contrast agents injection and heterogeneous lesion with hyperintense edge and hypointense fundus, suggesting fleshy process with areas of central necrosis and perilesionnal edema extending in finger-like fashion with intense annular enhancement after gadolinium injection on T2 weighted sequence. Spectroscopy showed glial tumor. The patient received anticonvulsant therapy and macroscopic complete resection. Anatomopathologic analysis showed cerebral tuberculoma. She received antituberculosis drugs with seizure stoppage and deficit recovery after 4 weeks. This study highlights the clinical and radiological polymorphism of cerebral tuberculoma. This is suspected based on laboratory tests as well as on a body of clinical and radiological evidences but definitive diagnosis is based on anatomopathologic analysis. Early management is essential because complications can be severe and result in a poor prognosis.	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31303945	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303945	tuberculosis
The Pan African medical journal	[Intestinal tuberculosis revealed by acute bowel obstruction during paradoxical reaction to antituberculosis treatment in an immunocompetent patient: about a case and literature review].	Abdominal tuberculosis accounts for 3 to 5% of all visceral diseases. Despite the demonstrated effectiveness of anti-tuberculosis treatments, some cases of exacerbation of the initial clinical presentation have been described during the initiation of treatment. However, these reactions also known as "paradoxical" have been rarely reported in immunocompetent patients and much less in the case of bowel obstruction. We report a case of intestinal tuberculosis revealed by acute bowel obstruction during paradoxical reaction to anti-tuberculosis treatment. The study included a 26-year old immunocompetent patient with occlusive syndrome after a month of treatment for pleuropulmonary tuberculosis. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed small bowel obstruction. Laparotomy objectified intraperitoneal mass with multiple adhesions. Anatomo-pathological examination of the surgical specimen showed intestinal tuberculosis. Patient's outcome was favorable after the continuation of initial antituberculosis treatment.	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31303942	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303942	tuberculosis
The Pan African medical journal	[Pseudotumoral bronchopulmonary tuberculosis mimicking cancer in an immunocompetent patient].	Tuberculosis is a disease caused by tubercle bacillus infection. It can affect all of the body's organs. Pulmonary tuberculosis accounts for a little more than 50% of its occurrences. It is a public health problem worldwide, and developing countries in particular. Pseudotumoral bronchopulmonary tuberculosis is a particular form of tuberculosis in immunocompetent subject. It can manifests as a bronchial or pulmonary lesion, suggesting a neoplasia visible on chest CT scan or bronchoscopy. This similarity can confuse clinicians, making diagnosis challenging and requiring the use of invasive diagnostic techniques, since traditional means are often lacking. This increases burden of care and causes delayed treatment. This study aims to educate clinicians about this particular and uncommon form of tuberculosis, which should be suspected in patient with radiological findings compatible with the disease, especially since they live in a highly endemic country. Therapy and treatment duration are the same as for common forms of tuberculosis.	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31303939	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303939	tuberculosis
The Pan African medical journal	[Pseudotumoral tuberculosis of the cervix].	Tuberculosis of the cervix is rare and can mimick cervical cancer. Patients are paucisymptomatic and the disease is characterized by an insidious evolution, hence the delay in diagnosis. Common symptoms are non-specific contributing to therapeutic delay and increasing the risk of infertility which is perhaps inevitable. We report a case of tuberculosis of the cervix whose diagnosis given first wasn't obvious. Indeed, a patient was referred to our Department with suspected cervical cancer. Suspected diagnosis of cancer was then retained based on the presence of vaginal bleeding on contact and abdominopelvic CT scan results showing cervical cancer. Biopsy was indicated in order to confirm the diagnosis histologically. Anatomo-pathological examination objectified epitheliogigantocellular granuloma with caseous necrosis, supporting cervical tuberculosis. The other examinations were negative. The patient received TB treatment which led to healing. Diagnosis and treatment of tuberculosis of the cervix is often based on presumptive elements, hence the importance of anatomo-pathological examination.	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31303932	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303932	tuberculosis
Indian journal of orthopaedics	A Prospective Study of Clinicoradiologic-Urodynamic Correlation in Patients with Tuberculosis of the Spine.	Significant bladder comorbidity is associated with spinal TB and its presence can be recognized as a poor prognostic factor. Urological morbidity is strongly linked to the nerve root and posterior element involvement; reduction in disc height; and end plate erosion. Clinical/neurological improvement correlates with marked radiological and urological improvement.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31303668	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303668	tuberculosis
Pediatrics and neonatology	Concomitant pediatric abdominal and pulmonary tuberculosis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Singapore	31303454	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303454	tuberculosis
Cytopathology : official journal of the British Society for Clinical Cytology	Diagnosing Kikuchi's Disease on fine needle aspiration biopsy.	In summary, FNA biopsy is a fast, reliable, and relatively inexpensive diagnosis tool for KD. CB preparation is an important adjunct method for the diagnosis of KD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302946	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302946	tuberculosis
Molecular phylogenetics and evolution	The role of IS6110 in micro- and macroevolution of Mycobacterium tuberculosis lineage 2.	The insertion sequence 6110 (IS6110) is the most studied transposable element in the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex species. The element plays a significant role in genome plasticity of this important human pathogen, but still many causes and consequences of its transposition have not been fully studied. Here, we analyzed insertion sites for 902 Mycobacterium tuberculosis lineage 2 strains using whole-genome sequencing data. In total, 17,972 insertions were found, corresponding to 827 independent positions in the genome of the reference strain H37Rv. To trace the history of IS6110 expansion since proto-Beijing strains up to modern sublineages, we looked at the distribution of IS6110 across the genome-wide SNP-based phylogenetic tree. This analysis demonstrated a stepwise transposition of IS6110 that occurs by «copy-and-paste» mechanism. Additionally, we detected evolutionary-scale and sublineage-specific integration sites, which can be used for typing and for understanding the reasons for the success of the lineage. A significant part of such insertions affected the genes that are essential for the pathogen. Finally, we identified and confirmed deletions that occurred between differently oriented elements, which is uncommon for this family of insertion elements and appears to be another mechanism of genome variability.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302224	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302224	tuberculosis
Biochimie	Stringent response protein as a potential target to intervene persistent bacterial infection.	More than half of the world's population is infected with persistent bacterial infections, consequently, persisters are gradually becoming a major public health concern. During the persistent phase, bacterial pathogens deploy many regulatory strategies to compensate unfavorable host environmental conditions. The stringent response is one of such gene regulatory mechanisms which is stimulated by nutrient starvation. It is regulated by the synthesis of highly phosphorylated signaling nucleotides, (p)ppGpp or alarmone. (p)ppGpp is synthesized by ppGpp synthetases, and these proteins are classified as RelA/SpoT homolog (RSH) proteins. Subsequently, (p)ppGpp modulate several molecular and biochemical processes ranging from transcription to metabolism. Imperativeness of (p)ppGpp synthetases has been investigated by numerous approaches including microbiology and animal studies, thereby establishing that Rel enzyme deleted strains of pathogenic bacteria were unable to transform in persister form. In this review, we summarize recent findings to corroborate the rationality to consider (p)ppGpp synthetase as a potential target in discovering a novel class of antimicrobial agents to combat persistent infections. Moreover, inhibition studies on Mycobacterium tuberculosis (p)ppGpp synthetase shows that these inhibitors prevent dormant state transition and biofilm formation. Also, we have highlighted the structural biology of (p)ppGpp synthetases, which may provide significant information that could be used in structure-based inhibitor design.	2019	eng	Review	France	31302165	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302165	tuberculosis
Journal of dairy science	Short communication: Mycolicibacterium smegmatis, basonym Mycobacterium smegmatis, causing pyogranulomatous mastitis and its cross-reactivity in bovine (para)tuberculosis testing.	Different mycobacterial species are encountered in bovine medicine. The fastidiously growing mycobacteria (Mycobacterium bovis as the cause of bovine tuberculosis, and Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis, MAP, as the cause of paratuberculosis) are well known and targeted in eradication/control or monitoring programs in different countries, whereas the rapidly growing species is only rarely identified from bovine disease. The latter have occasionally been reported as the cause of bovine clinical mastitis, but recent reports are scarce. In this study, Mycolicibacterium smegmatis (basonym Mycobacterium smegmatis) was identified as cause of granulomatous, relapsing clinical mastitis in 2 cows from one Belgian dairy herd. Milk, blood, and fecal samples were collected, as well as tissue samples after the cows were culled. Serological analysis conducted on milk and serum samples resulted in positive reactions for MAP, but negative for Mycobacterium bovis. Production of IFN-γ showed sensitization with mycobacteria or similar organisms, other than M. bovis, in one cow. Detection of MAP by bacteriological culture and IS900-based quantitative PCR on milk and feces remained negative. In conclusion, this paper describes M. smegmatis as a cause of bovine clinical mastitis in Belgium and suggests cross-reactivity of the intramammary M. smegmatis infection with routinely used serological tests for MAP.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301842	tuberculosis
F1000Research	Are we missing 'previously treated' smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis under programme settings in India? A cross-sectional study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31297190	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297190	tuberculosis
Folia medica	A Rare Case of a Tuberculosis Patient with Sarcoidosis.	In cases of diagnostic uncertainty between sarcoidosis and tuberculosis we should administer corticosteroid therapy until we have microbiological confirmation of mycobacterium culture.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Germany	31301651	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301651	tuberculosis
European journal of medicinal chemistry	Bioisosteric ferrocenyl aminoquinoline-benzimidazole hybrids: Antimicrobial evaluation and mechanistic insights.	Phenyl- and bioisosteric ferrocenyl-derived aminoquinoline-benzimidazole hybrid compounds were synthesised and evaluated for their in vitro antiplasmodial activity against the chloroquine-sensitive NF54 and multi-drug resistant K1 strains of the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum. All compounds were active against the two strains, generally showing enhanced activity in the K1 strain, with resistance indices less than 1. Cytotoxicity studies using Chinese hamster ovarian cells revealed that the hybrids were relatively non-cytotoxic and demonstrated selective killing of the parasite. Based on favourable in vitro antiplasmodial and cytotoxicity data, the most active phenyl (4c) and ferrocenyl (5b) hybrids were tested in vivo against the rodent Plasmodium berghei mouse model. Both compounds caused a reduction in parasitemia relative to the control, with 5c displaying superior activity (92% reduction in parasitemia at 4 × 50 mg/kg oral doses). The most active phenyl and ferrocenyl derivatives showed inhibition of β-haematin formation in a NP-40 detergent-mediated assay, indicating a possible contributing mechanism of antiplasmodial action. The most active ferrocenyl hybrid did not display appreciable reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in a ROS-induced DNA cleavage gel electrophoresis study. The compounds were also screened for their in vitro activity against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The hybrids containing a more hydrophobic substituent had enhanced activity (<32.7 μM) compared to those with a less hydrophobic substituent (>62.5 μM).	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31301563	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301563	tuberculosis
International journal of infectious diseases : IJID : official publication of the International Society for Infectious Diseases	Diagnosis and Management of Latent Tuberculosis Infection in Asia: Review of Current Status and Challenges.	Asia has the highest burden of tuberculosis (TB) and latent TB infection (LTBI) in the world. Optimizing the diagnosis and treatment of LTBI is one of the key strategies for achieving the WHO 'End TB' targets. We report the discussions from the Asia Latent TubERculosis (ALTER) expert panel meeting held in 2018 in Singapore. In this meeting, a group of 13 TB experts from Bangladesh, Cambodia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam convened to review the literature, discuss the barriers and propose strategies to improve the management of LTBI in Asia. Strategies for the optimization of risk group prioritization, diagnosis, treatment, and research of LTBI are reported. The perspectives presented herein, may help national programs and professional societies of the respective countries enhance the adoption of the WHO guidelines, scale-up the implementation of national guidelines based on the regional needs, and provide optimal guidance to clinicians for the programmatic management of LTBI.	2019	eng	Review	Canada	31301458	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301458	tuberculosis
Acta biochimica Polonica	Lack of significant effect of interleukin-18 gene variants on tuberculosis susceptibility in the Polish population.	Our results suggest that IL-18(-137G/A) and IL-18(-607A/C) polymorphisms may not be risk factors for susceptibility to TB in the Polish population. Increased serum IL-18 level observed in TB patients has no genetic background, but is a consequence of M.tb infection. Further studies with a higher sample size are required to confirm these findings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	31301271	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301271	tuberculosis
Scientific reports	Evaluation of in silico designed inhibitors targeting MelF (Rv1936) against Mycobacterium marinum within macrophages.	We recently identified inhibitors targeting Mycobacterium marinum MelF (Rv1936) by in silico analysis, which exhibited bacteriostatic/bactericidal activity against M. marinum and M. tuberculosis in vitro. Herein, we evaluated the effect of best four inhibitors (# 5175552, # 6513745, # 5255829, # 9125618) obtained from the ChemBridge compound libraries, on intracellular replication and persistence of bacteria within IFN-γ activated murine RAW264.7 and human THP-1 macrophages infected with M. marinum. Inhibitors # 5175552 and # 6513745 significantly reduced (p < 0.05) the intracellular replication of bacilli during day 7 post-infection (p.i.) within RAW264.7 and THP-1 macrophages infected at multiplicity of infection (MOI) of ~1.0. These observations were substantiated by electron microscopy, which revealed the protective effect of # 5175552 in clearing the bacilli inside murine macrophages. Strikingly, # 6513745 displayed synergism with isoniazid against M. marinum in murine macrophages, whereas # 5175552 significantly suppressed (p < 0.05) the persistent bacilli during day 10-14 p.i. in infected RAW264.7 and THP-1 macrophages (MOI of ~ 0.1). Moreover, # 5175552 and # 6513745 were non-cytotoxic to host macrophages at both 1X and 5X MIC. Further validation of these inhibitors against M. tuberculosis-infected macrophages and animal models has potential for development as novel anti-tubercular agents.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300732	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300732	tuberculosis
Occupational and environmental medicine	Association of air pollution with the risk of initial outpatient visits for tuberculosis in Wuhan, China.	Our study first highlighted the importance of weekly association between air pollution and the risk of initial TB consults, which is helpful for the arrangements of TB screening and medical assistance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300562	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300562	tuberculosis
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Blastocystis subtype 1 (allele 4); Predominant subtype among tuberculosis patients in Iran.	Blastocystis ST1 was the most prevalent subtype in TB patients and there was no difference between Blastocystis isolates from TB and non-TB human subjects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300114	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300114	tuberculosis
BMC research notes	Effectiveness of directly observed treatment short course (DOTS) on treatment of tuberculosis patients in public health facilities of Debre Tabor Town, Ethiopia: retrospective study.	Among 354 TB patients, 53.1% were males. Furthermore 22.6%, 40.4%, and 37% were smear positive pulmonary, smear negative pulmonary and extra pulmonary TB respectively. Study also revealed that TB-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection and overall TB treatment success rate were 18.1% and 90.7% respectively. Regular weigh follow-up, sputum follow-up and HIV status were significantly associated with treatment success with P-value < 0.001, < 0.001 and 0.334 respectively. But TB treatment success weren't associated with sex (P = 8.62), health facility type (P = 0.749) and TB type (P = 0.778). The study also showed that the overall TB treatment success rate was in line with World Health Organization (WHO) target on treatment success rate. Furthermore the study indicated higher TB-HIV co-infection and variations in conducting regular weight and sputum follow-up among HFs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300032	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300032	tuberculosis
Trials	Implementation and effectiveness of evriMED with short messages service (SMS) reminders and tailored feedback compared to standard care on adherence to treatment among tuberculosis patients in Kilimanjaro, Tanzania: proposal for a cluster randomized controlled trial.	Pan African Clinical Trials Registry, PACTR201811755733759 . Registered on 8 November 2018.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300028	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300028	tuberculosis
BMC infectious diseases	Evidence for heterogeneity in China's progress against pulmonary tuberculosis: uneven reductions in a major center of ongoing transmission, 2005-2017.	While PTB incidence rates decreased strikingly in the study area over the past decade, improvements have not been equally distributed. Additional surveillance and control efforts should be guided by the seasonal-trend and spatiotemporal cluster analyses presented here, focusing on areas with increasing incidence rates, and updated to reflect the latest information from real-time reporting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299911	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299911	tuberculosis
BMC infectious diseases	The association between tuberculin skin test result and active tuberculosis risk of college students in Beijing, China: a retrospective cohort study.	This study indicated that the risk of active TB increased in college students when the TST reaction size was ≥10 mm, and males had a higher risk compared to females.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299908	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299908	tuberculosis
BMC infectious diseases	Spatial analysis of HIV-TB co-clustering in Uganda.	This study makes a significant contribution to TB/HIV public health bodies around Uganda by identifying areas with high joint disease burden, in the light of TB/HIV co-infection. It, thus, provides a valuable starting point for an informed and targeted intervention, as a positive step towards a TB and HIV-AIDS free community.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299907	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299907	tuberculosis
BMC infectious diseases	Use of nanotechnology for infectious disease diagnostics: application in drug resistant tuberculosis.	The AuNP based lateral flow assay was capable of differentiating the specific mutation and the wild type along with MTb identification within 3 h.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299893	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299893	tuberculosis
Journal of biomolecular structure & dynamics	Structural and dynamic studies provide insights into specificity and allosteric regulation of Ribonuclease AS, a key enzyme in mycobacterial virulence.	Ribonuclease AS (RNase AS) is a crucial enzyme for virulence of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299874	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299874	tuberculosis
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Correlation of Computed Tomography of Colonic Wall Thickening with Colonoscopy.	A proportion of patients with thickening on CT scan, especially mild, may have normal colonoscopy. Patients should be counseled about the same prior to colonoscopy. However, colonoscopy should be done to rule out abnormality even when CT shows mild thickening.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31299832	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299832	tuberculosis
Cytokine	Plasma levels of C-reactive protein, matrix metalloproteinase-7 and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein distinguish active pulmonary or extrapulmonary tuberculosis from uninfected controls in children.	The immune profile associated with distinct clinical forms of tuberculosis (TB) has been extensively described for adult populations. Nevertheless, studies describing immune determinants of pulmonary or extrapulmonary TB (PTB or EPTB, respectively) in children are scarce. Here, we retrospectively assessed plasma levels of several mediators of inflammation in age and sex-matched children from South India presenting with PTB (n = 14) or EPTB (n = 22) as well as uninfected healthy controls (n = 19) to identify biomarkers that could accurately distinguish different TB clinical forms. Furthermore, we performed exploratory analyses testing the influence of sex on the systemic inflammatory profile. The analyses identified a biosignature of 10 biomarkers capable of distinguishing the three clinical groups simultaneously. Machine-learning decision trees indicated that C-reactive protein (CRP), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-7 and lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) were the markers that, when combined, displayed the highest accuracy in identifying the clinical groups. Additional exploratory analyses suggested that the disease signatures were highly influenced by sex. Therefore, sex differentially impacted status of systemic inflammation, immune activation and tissue remodeling in children with distinct clinical forms of TB. Regardless of such nuances related to biological sex, MMP-7, CRP and LBP were strong discriminators of active TB and thus could be considered as biomarkers useful in discrimination different TB clinical forms. These observations have implications on our understanding of the immunopathology of both clinical forms of TB in pediatric patients. If validated by other studies in the future, the combination of identified biomarkers may help development of point-of-care diagnostic or prognostic tools.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299414	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299414	tuberculosis
International journal of infectious diseases : IJID : official publication of the International Society for Infectious Diseases	Insight into genetic diversity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Kandy, Sri Lanka reveals predominance of the Euro-American lineage.	The population structure of MTB in Kandy, Sri Lanka was different from the South Asian Region. Clonal expansion of locally evolved lineage 4/SIT3234 and detection of the pre-MDR Beijing isolates from new TB patients is alarming and will require continuous monitoring.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31299365	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299365	tuberculosis
Protein expression and purification	Enhancement of the stability of Mycobacterium tuberculosis recombinant antigen expressed in Escherichia coli using cell lysis additives.	Recombinant Mtb antigen stabilization using chemical additives inhibited protein degradation, leading to increased antigen stability and purification efficiency.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299213	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299213	tuberculosis
ACS infectious diseases	Cyclipostins and Cyclophostin analogs are multi-target inhibitors that impair growth of Mycobacterium abscessus.	Twelve new Cyclophostin and Cyclipostins analogs (CyC19-30) were synthesized, thus extending our series to 38 CyCs. Their antibacterial activities were evaluated against four pathogenic mycobacteria (Mycobacterium abscessus, Mycobacterium marinum, Mycobacterium bovis BCG and Mycobacterium tuberculosis) and two Gram negative bacteria. The CyCs displayed very low toxicity towards host cells and were only active against mycobacteria. Importantly, several CyCs were active against extracellular M. abscessus (CyC17/CyC18β/CyC25/CyC26) or intramacrophage residing mycobacteria (CyC7(α,β)/CyC8(α,β)) with minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC50) values comparable to or better than those of amikacin or imipenem, respectively. An activity-based protein profiling combined with mass spectrometry allowed identification of the potential target enzymes of CyC17/CyC26, mostly being involved in lipid metabolism and/or in cell wall biosynthesis. Overall, these results strengthen the selective activity of the CyCs against mycobacteria, including the most drug-resistant M. abscessus, through the cumulative inhibition of a large number of Ser- and Cys-enzymes participating in key physiological processes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299146	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299146	tuberculosis
Tropical medicine & international health : TM & IH	Over and under treatment of TB patients in Eastern China: an analysis based on health insurance claims data.	We found an alarming extent of TB over- and under-treatment in our study population. There is an urgent need to improve compliance with treatment guidelines in China and to better understand the drivers of divergence. Extending the coverage of health insurance schemes and increasing reimbursement rates for TB outpatient services would seem to be key factors in reducing both the overall cost and financial burden on patients. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299130	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299130	tuberculosis
PloS one	Two tales: Worldwide distribution of Central Asian (CAS) versus ancestral East-African Indian (EAI) lineages of Mycobacterium tuberculosis underlines a remarkable cleavage for phylogeographical, epidemiological and demographical characteristics.	The East African Indian (EAI) and Central Asian (CAS) lineages of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) mainly infect tuberculosis (TB) patients in the eastern hemisphere which contains many of the 22 high TB burden countries including China and India. We investigated if phylogeographical, epidemiological and demographical characteristics for these 2 lineages differed in SITVIT2 database. Genotyping results and associated data (age, sex, HIV serology, drug resistance) on EAI and CAS lineages (n = 10,974 strains) were extracted. Phylogenetic and Bayesian, and other statistical analyses were used to compare isolates. The male/female sex ratio was 907/433 (2.09) for the EAI group vs. 881/544 (1.62) for CAS (p-value<0.002). The proportion of younger patients aged 0-20 yrs. with CAS lineage was significantly higher than for EAI lineage (18.07% vs. 10.85%, p-value<0.0001). The proportion of multidrug resistant and extensively drug resistant TB among CAS group (30.63% and 1.03%, respectively) was significantly higher than in the EAI group (12.14% and 0.29%, respectively; p-value<0.0001). Lastly, the proportion of HIV+ patients was 20.34% among the EAI group vs. 3.46% in the CAS group (p-value<0.0001). This remarkable split observed between various parameters for these 2 lineages was further corroborated by their geographic distribution profile (EAI being predominantly found in Eastern-Coast of Africa, South-India and Southeast Asia, while CAS was predominantly found in Afghanistan, Pakistan, North India, Nepal, Middle-east, Libya, Sudan, Ethiopia, Kenya and Tanzania). Some geo-specificities were highlighted. This study demonstrated a remarkable cleavage for aforementioned characteristics of EAI and CAS lineages, showing a North-South divide along the tropic of cancer in Eastern hemisphere-mainly in Asia, and partly prolonged along the horn of Africa. Such studies would be helpful to better comprehend prevailing TB epidemic in context of its historical spread and evolutionary features, and provide clues to better treatment and patient-care in countries and regions concerned by these lineages.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299060	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299060	tuberculosis
PLoS medicine	Designing noninferiority tuberculosis treatment trials: Identifying practical advantages for drug regimens with acceptable effectiveness.	In this Collection Review for the Novel Treatments for Tuberculosis Collection, Piero Olliaro and Michael Vaillant discuss the considerations when choosing a non-inferiority margin that is meaningful from statistical, ethical, clinical, and health standpoint.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299047	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299047	tuberculosis
The Journal of infectious diseases	Early Clearance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis: The INFECT Case Contact Cohort Study in Indonesia.	A quarter of household TB case contacts were early clearers. Protection against M. tuberculosis infection was strongly associated with BCG vaccination. Lower protection from BCG with increasing M. tuberculosis exposure and age can inform vaccine development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298280	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298280	tuberculosis
The Journal of infectious diseases	Understanding How BCG Vaccine Protects Against Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection: Lessons From Household Contact Studies.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298279	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298279	tuberculosis
Physical chemistry chemical physics : PCCP	DFT study on the effect of proximal residues on the Mycobacterium tuberculosis catalase-peroxidase (katG) heme compound I intermediate and its bonding interaction with isoniazid.	Isoniazid (INH) is converted into isonicotinyl radical through its interaction with the catalase-peroxidase (katG) enzyme present in the cells of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tb.), the bacteria that causes the tuberculosis disease. This process is important because resistance of M. tb. cells to INH treatment has been associated with the failure of completion of this process. However, this process is poorly understood and there are a variety of conflicting theories about the details of the mechanism of this process. One theory suggests that INH binds to katG and transfers a single electron to the heme while the heme is in its two electron oxidized state, compound I [Fe(iv)Por˙+] (CpdI). In this study, DFT calculations at the UB3LYP/6-31g(d)-LANL2DZ level of theory are used to study the M. tb. katG CpdI molecule. Different models of the M. tb. CpdI molecule were prepared and the calculations revealed the impact of Trp321 on the electronic properties of the heme. Without Trp321 the heme assumed a triradical state with single electrons on the πxy and πyz orbitals of Fe and another on the a2u orbital of the porphyrin ring that can either be coupled with the first two, to assume a quartet state, or decoupled to form a doublet state. With Trp321, however, a transfer of an electron from the πTrp orbital to a2u porphyrin orbital leads to loss of radical character of the porphyrin and leaves the Trp321 group with a radical character. INH was observed to have strong interaction with CpdI and the absence of Trp321 significantly decreased the binding energy by 2 kcal mol-1 explaining the importance of Trp321 in the binding of INH. The results in this study show the importance of Trp321 in the binding of INH and its effect on its electronic properties, which is consistent with previous experimental findings that mutation of Trp321 results in an increase in drug resistance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298238	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298238	tuberculosis
Microbiology spectrum	ESX/Type VII Secretion Systems-An Important Way Out for Mycobacterial Proteins.	The causative agent of human tuberculosis, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298207	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298207	tuberculosis
Microbiology spectrum	Immunology of 	Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious global public health challenge that results in significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. TB is caused by infection with the bacilli 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298204	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298204	tuberculosis
FEBS letters	Efficient Computational Model for Identification of Anti-tubercular Peptides by Integrating Amino Acid Patterns and Properties.	Tuberculosis (TB) is a leading killer caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Recently, anti-TB peptides have provided an alternative approach to combat antibiotic tolerance. We have developed an effective computational predictor, iAntiTB (Identification of Anti-tubercular Peptides), by the integration of multiple feature vectors deriving from the amino acid sequences via random forest (RF) and support vector machine (SVM) classifiers. The iAntiTB combines the RF and SVM scores via linear regression to enhance the prediction accuracy. To make a robust and accurate predictor, we prepared the two datasets with different types of negative samples. The iAntiTB achieved AUC values of 0.896 and 0.946 on the training datasets of the first and second datasets, respectively. The iAntiTB outperformed the other existing predictors. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31297788	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297788	tuberculosis
PharmacoEconomics - open	Managing Uncertainties Due to Limited Evidence in Economic Evaluations of Novel Anti-Tuberculosis Regimens: A Systematic Review.	Using an approach similar to that used in early HTAs, where uncertainties due to the limited evidence are rigorously explored upfront, the economic evaluations could inform not only the decision to implement the intervention but also how to manage risks and implementation barriers.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31297751	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297751	tuberculosis
Canadian journal of public health = Revue canadienne de sante publique	Latent tuberculosis treatment completion rates from prescription drug administrative data.	Benchmark 80% treatment completion rates were not achieved in Manitoba. Factors associated with non-completion were older age, INH270, and RIF120. Access to shorter LTBI treatments, such as rifapentine/INH, may improve treatment completion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31297736	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297736	tuberculosis
Der Nervenarzt	[Diagnostics and treatment of tuberculosis under immunotherapy for multiple sclerosis : Current status and recommendations in Germany].	After years of low incidence, a large increase of new tuberculosis (TB) cases has been reported in Germany since 2015. New immunotherapies for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) are associated with a reduced immune competence and a potential increased risk for infections. Most neurologists lack specific experiences with TB infections. This article summarizes specific recommendations for the diagnostics and treatment of TB under MS immunotherapies with a focus on the situation in Germany. Due to low case numbers and little experience with the risk of TB under the new immunotherapies, the clinical competence network for MS (KKNMS) consensus recommendations have a low grade of evidence.	2019	ger	Review	Germany	31297574	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297574	tuberculosis
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Incidence of Active Tuberculosis Following Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation: A Small but Real Threat.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297538	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297538	tuberculosis
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Reply to Aronson et al.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297517	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297517	tuberculosis
Frontiers in veterinary science	Bayesian Assessment of the Accuracy of a PCR-Based Rapid Diagnostic Test for Bovine Tuberculosis in Swine.	Infection with the 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31297374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297374	tuberculosis
Frontiers in immunology	None	The live attenuated mycobacterial strain BCG, in use as vaccine against tuberculosis, is considered the gold standard for primary therapy of carcinoma 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31297119	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297119	tuberculosis
Frontiers in microbiology	Detection of Tuberculosis Recurrence, Diagnosis and Treatment Response by a Blood Transcriptomic Risk Signature in HIV-Infected Persons on Antiretroviral Therapy.	HIV-infected individuals are at high risk of tuberculosis disease and those with prior tuberculosis episodes are at even higher risk of disease recurrence. A non-sputum biomarker that identifies individuals at highest tuberculosis risk would allow targeted microbiological testing and appropriate treatment and also guide need for prolonged therapy. We determined the utility of a previously developed whole blood transcriptomic correlate of risk (COR) signature for (1) predicting incident recurrent tuberculosis, (2) tuberculosis diagnosis and (3) its potential utility for tuberculosis treatment monitoring in HIV-infected individuals. We retrieved cryopreserved blood specimens from three previously completed clinical studies and measured the COR signature by quantitative microfluidic real-time-PCR. The signature differentiated recurrent tuberculosis progressors from non-progressors within 3 months of diagnosis with an area under the Receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) of 0.72 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.58-0.85) amongst HIV-infected individuals on antiretroviral therapy (ART). Twenty-five of 43 progressors (58%) were asymptomatic at microbiological diagnosis and thus had subclinical disease. The signature showed excellent diagnostic discrimination between HIV-uninfected tuberculosis cases and controls (AUC 0.97; 95%CI 0.94-1). Performance was lower in HIV-infected individuals (AUC 0.83; 95%CI 0.81-0.96) and signature scores were directly associated with HIV viral loads. Tuberculosis treatment response in HIV-infected individuals on ART with a new recurrent tuberculosis diagnosis was also assessed. Signature scores decreased significantly during treatment. However, pre-treatment scores could not differentiate between those who became sputum negative before and after 2 months. Direct application of the unmodified blood transcriptomic COR signature detected subclinical and active tuberculosis by blind validation in HIV-infected individuals. However, prognostic performance for recurrent tuberculosis, and performance as diagnostic and as treatment monitoring tool in HIV-infected persons was inferior to published results from HIV-negative cohorts. Our results suggest that performance of transcriptomic signatures comprising interferon stimulated genes are negatively affected in HIV-infected individuals, especially in those with incompletely suppressed viral loads.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31297103	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297103	tuberculosis
Science (New York, N.Y.)	Protein interaction networks revealed by proteome coevolution.	Residue-residue coevolution has been observed across a number of protein-protein interfaces, but the extent of residue coevolution between protein families on the whole-proteome scale has not been systematically studied. We investigate coevolution between 5.4 million pairs of proteins in 	2019	eng	Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't	United States	31296772	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296772	tuberculosis
Enfermeria clinica	Knowledge, awareness, and perception towards tuberculosis disease among International Islamic University Malaysia Kuantan students.	These findings would suggest that more efforts should be made to improve the knowledge, awareness, and perception of students regarding TB disease.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31296469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296469	tuberculosis
Vaccine	Exploring the effects of BCG vaccination in patients diagnosed with tuberculosis: Observational study using the Enhanced Tuberculosis Surveillance system.	We found that BCG vaccination was associated with reduced all-cause mortality in people with TB although this benefit was less pronounced more than 10 years after vaccination. There was weak evidence of an association with reduced recurrent TB.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31296375	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296375	tuberculosis
Bioorganic & medicinal chemistry letters	Oxadiazole scaffolds in anti-tuberculosis drug discovery.	With the increasing number of cases of latent and drug resistant tuberculosis, there is an urgent need to develop new, potent molecules capable of combating this deadly disease. Molecules containing oxadiazoles are one such class that could be considered to fulfil this need. Oxadiazole regioisomers have been explored in drug discovery programs for their ability to act as effective linkers and also as pharmacophoric features. Oxadiazoles can act as bioisosteric replacements for the hydrazide moiety which can be found in first line anti-TB drugs, and some have been also reported to interact with newer anti-TB targets. In this context, the present review describes the potential of oxadiazoles as antituberculosis agents.	2019	eng	Review	England	31296357	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296357	tuberculosis
Innate immunity	IL-18 polymorphisms (-137C/G and -607A/C) are not associated with tuberculosis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296089	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296089	tuberculosis
African journal of primary health care & family medicine	Institutional tuberculosis infection control in a rural sub-district in South Africa: A quality improvement study.	We found good managerial commitment reflected by the presence of various policies, guidelines, specific personnel and committees to deal with infection control in general. This study has created awareness about TBIC among staff and pointed out the complexity of health workers' behaviour towards adhering to policies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31296014	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296014	tuberculosis
Acta tropica	Paragonimus and paragonimiasis in Asia: an update.	Paragonimiasis, or lung fluke disease, is a typical food-borne parasitic zoonosis caused by infection with trematodes belonging to the genus Paragonimus. More than 50 species of Paragonimus have been reported throughout the world, of which seven valid species infect humans, an estimated one million people annually worldwide. Among the seven species, P. westermani, P. heterotremus, and P. skrjabini/P. s. miyazakii, distributed in Asia, are the most important species as the cause of paragonimiasis. Humans acquire infection through the ingestion of raw, pickled or undercooked freshwater crustaceans, 2nd intermediate hosts, or consuming raw meat of wild boar or deer, paratenic hosts. Infections often occur clustered in foci where dietary habits allow transmission of the parasites. Paragonimiasis typically causes a subacute to chronic inflammatory disease of the lungs. The symptoms, including chronic cough, chest pain, dyspnea and hemoptysis, mimic those of tuberculosis and lung cancer. Serologic tests are commonly used for the diagnosis of paragonimiasis, and Praziquantel is the treatment of choice. In this review, the current status of Paragonimus and paragonimiasis in Asia is outlined based on the latest information and findings. We also summarize current trends of paragonimiasis in Japan, which is one of the most endemic area of paragonimiasis in the world, for the better understanding and control of paragonimiasis.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31295431	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295431	tuberculosis
PloS one	Undetected tuberculosis at enrollment and after hospitalization in medical and oncology wards in Botswana.	Cancer patients are at higher risk of tuberculosis (TB) infection, especially in hospital settings with high TB/HIV burden. The study was implemented among adult patients admitted to the largest tertiary-level referral hospital in Botswana. We estimated the TB prevalence at admission and the rate of newly diagnosed TB after hospitalization in the medical and oncology wards, separately. Presumptive TB cases were identified at admission through symptom screening and underwent the diagnostic evaluation through GeneXpert. Patients with no evidence of TB were followed-up until TB diagnosis or the end of the study. In the medical and oncology wards, four of 867 admitted patients and two of 240 had laboratory-confirmed TB at admission (prevalence = 461.4 and 833.3 per 100,000, respectively.) The post-admission TB rate from the medical wards was 28.3 cases per 1,000 person-year during 424.5 follow-up years (post-admission TB rate among HIV-positive versus. -negative = 54.1 and 9.8 per 1,000 person-year, respectively [Rate Ratio = 5.5]). No post-admission TB case was detected from the oncology ward. High rates of undetected TB at admission at both medical and oncology wards, and high rate of newly diagnosed TB after admission at medical wards suggest that TB screening and diagnostic evaluation should target all patients admitted to a hospital in high-burden settings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295315	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295315	tuberculosis
PloS one	Mortality during treatment for tuberculosis; a review of surveillance data in a rural county in Kenya.	We found most deaths occurred within three months and an increasing mortality rate during the time under review among patients on TB treatment. Our results therefore warrant further investigation to explore host, disease or health system factors that may explain this trend.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295277	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295277	tuberculosis
PloS one	Season and size of urban particulate matter differentially affect cytotoxicity and human immune responses to Mycobacterium tuberculosis.	Exposure to air pollution particulate matter (PM) and tuberculosis (TB) are two of the leading global public health challenges affecting low and middle income countries. An estimated 4.26 million premature deaths are attributable to household air pollution and an additional 4.1 million to outdoor air pollution annually. Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) infects a large proportion of the world's population with the risk for TB development increasing during immunosuppressing conditions. There is strong evidence that such immunosuppressive conditions develop during household air pollution exposure, which increases rates of TB development. Exposure to urban air pollution has been shown to alter the outcome of TB therapy. Here we examined whether in vitro exposure to urban air pollution PM alters human immune responses to M.tb. PM2.5 and PM10 (aerodynamic diameters <2.5μm, <10μm) were collected monthly from rainy, cold-dry and warm-dry seasons in Iztapalapa, a highly populated TB-endemic municipality of Mexico City with elevated outdoor air pollution levels. We evaluated the effects of seasonality and size of PM on cytotoxicity and antimycobacterial host immunity in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from interferon gamma (IFN-γ) release assay (IGRA)+ and IGRA- healthy study subjects. PM10 from cold-dry and warm-dry seasons induced the highest cytotoxicity in PBMC. With the exception of PM2.5 from the cold-dry season, pre-exposure to all seasonal PM reduced M.tb phagocytosis by PBMC. Furthermore, M.tb-induced IFN-γ production was suppressed in PM2.5 and PM10-pre-exposed PBMC from IGRA+ subjects. This observation coincides with the reduced expression of M.tb-induced T-bet, a transcription factor regulating IFN-γ expression in T cells. Pre-exposure to PM10 compared to PM2.5 led to greater loss of M.tb growth control. Exposure to PM2.5 and PM10 collected in different seasons differentially impairs M.tb-induced human host immunity, suggesting biological mechanisms underlying altered M.tb infection and TB treatment outcomes during air pollution exposures.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295271	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295271	tuberculosis
Otology & neurotology : official publication of the American Otological Society, American Neurotology Society [and] European Academy of Otology and Neurotology	HIV, Tuberculosis, and Otogenic Intracranial Sepsis: A Devastating Disease With a Subtle Presentation.	Otogenic intracranial complications continue to present late and are associated with significant mortality and morbidity, despite advances in diagnostic and treatment modalities. This study represents one of the largest case-series in the literature, and the first to specifically evaluate the effects of HIV and TB infection.Patient presentation and severity of illness varied; however, a majority of patients presented with ear discharge and no focal neurological signs. An effect size for higher mortality among HIV+ patients compared with HIV- patients was noted but was not significant. Tuberculosis infection was prevalent compared with previous studies.This study reinforces the need for enhanced screening and early treatment of ear disease to minimize associated mortality and morbidity, particularly in immunocompromised patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295202	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295202	tuberculosis
JAMA otolaryngology-- head & neck surgery	Congenital Tuberculosis With Oropharyngeal Mass Presenting as Neonatal Stridor.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294772	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294772	tuberculosis
ChemMedChem	Azaaurones as potent antimycobacterial agents active against MDR- and XDR-TB.	Herein we report the screening of a small library of aurones and their isosteric counterparts, azaaurones and N-acetylazaaurones, against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Aurones were inactive at 20 µM, while azaurones and N-acetylazaaurones emerged as the most potent compounds, with nine derivatives displaying MIC99 values ranging from 0.4 to 2.0 μM. In addition, several N-acetylazaaurones were found to be active against multidrug resistant (MDR) and extensively drug resistant (XDR) clinical M. tuberculosis isolates. The anti-mycobacterial mechanism of action of these compounds remains to be determined, however a preliminary mechanistic study confirmed that they do not inhibit the mycobacterial cytochrome bc1 complex. Additionally, microsomal metabolic stability and metabolite identification studies revealed that N-acetylazaaurones are deacetylated to their azaaurone counterparts. Overall, these results demonstrate that azaaurones and their N-acetyl counterparts represent a new entry in the toolbox of chemotypes capable of inhibiting M. tuberculosis growth.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31294529	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294529	tuberculosis
Frontiers in veterinary science	Editorial: Bovine Tuberculosis-International Perspectives on Epidemiology and Management.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	Switzerland	31294040	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294040	tuberculosis
Frontiers in pediatrics	Congenital Tuberculosis in a Neonate: A Case Report and Literature Review.	Congenital tuberculosis (TB) is difficult to detect because the disease presents few or no symptoms in the fetus during pregnancy and nonspecific symptoms in neonates. We reviewed 20 cases of congenital TB reported between 2011 and 2017 and report a case of a mother and her 8 days old neonate with congenital TB. In these 21 cases (including our case), the most common clinical presentations were respiratory distress, fever, and hepatosplenomegaly. The most common chest imaging findings were pneumonia, multiple pulmonary nodules, and miliary pattern. The mortality rate of infants with TB was increased ~2.2-fold if their mothers had no symptoms. The case reported herein concerns an 8 days old neonate with the rare presentation of a 2 days history of fever, followed by abdominal distension without respiratory symptoms. Computed tomography (CT) imaging exhibited a large amount of right pleural effusion. Multiple antimicrobial therapies were administered to the neonate; however, his symptoms persisted. Repeat CT was used to identify a progressed disease with multiple nodules over the lung, spleen, and hepatic hilar region. Standard anti-TB medications were prescribed, and the patient recovered gradually. Both gastric lavage and pleural effusion cultures confirmed the diagnosis of TB. The neonate's mother denied any TB contact history and the diagnosis of any medical disease during pregnancy, but she experienced a fulminant course of miliary TB and was admitted to the intensive care unit 24 days postpartum. She died despite receiving anti-TB treatment. In TB-endemic areas, congenital TB should be taken into consideration when neonates develop fever, respond poorly to antimicrobial treatment, and when their mothers deny any TB contact history.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Switzerland	31294005	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294005	tuberculosis
Frontiers in pediatrics	Examining the Complex Relationship Between Tuberculosis and Other Infectious Diseases in Children.	Millions of children are exposed to tuberculosis (TB) each year, many of which become infected with 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31294001	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294001	tuberculosis
Journal of clinical and translational hepatology	Diagnostic and Therapeutic Strategies for Peritoneal Tuberculosis: A Review.	Peritoneal tuberculosis (PTB), although rarer than its pulmonary counterpart, is a serious health concern in regions of the world with high tuberculosis prevalence. Individuals with baseline immunocompromise condition, whether acquired or medically induced, are at greatest risk for experiencing PTB. While medical treatment of the condition is similar to that of the pulmonary disease, the generally immunocompromised state of those infected with PTB, along with a lack of highly sensitive and specific testing methods make early diagnosis difficult. This review discusses the risks factors, clinical features, diagnostic methods, and treatment options for PTB.	2019	eng	Review	China	31293914	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293914	tuberculosis
MedChemComm	3D QSAR-based design and liquid phase combinatorial synthesis of 1,2-disubstituted benzimidazole-5-carboxylic acid and 3-substituted-5	Tuberculosis (TB) is one of the world's deadliest infectious diseases, caused by 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31293724	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293724	tuberculosis
Frontiers in immunology	Immunization With 	Liposomes have been long considered as a vaccine delivery system but this technology remains to be fully utilized. Here, we describe a novel liposome-based subunit vaccine formulation for tuberculosis (TB) based on phosphatidylserine encapsulating two prominent TB antigens, Ag85B, and ESAT-6. We show that the resulting liposomes (Lipo-AE) are stable upon storage and can be readily taken up by antigen presenting cells and that their antigenic cargo is delivered and processed within endosomal cell compartments. The Lipo-AE vaccine formulation combined with the PolyIC adjuvant induced a mixed Th1/Th17-Th2 immune response to Ag85B but only a weak response to ESAT-6. An immunization regimen based on systemic delivery followed by mucosal boost with Lipo-AE resulted in the accumulation of resident memory T cells in the lungs. Most importantly though, when Lipo-AE vaccine candidate was administered to BCG-immunized mice subsequently challenged with low dose aerosol 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293568	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293568	tuberculosis
Frontiers in microbiology	The Anti-mycobacterial Activity of a Diterpenoid-Like Molecule Operates Through Nitrogen and Amino Acid Starvation.	A library of 14 minimally cytotoxic diterpenoid-like compounds (CC	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293560	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293560	tuberculosis
Indian journal of nuclear medicine : IJNM : the official journal of the Society of Nuclear Medicine, India	Mesenteric Tuberculosis Masquerading as Carcinoid Tumor on Conventional Imaging and DOTANOC Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography: Uncommon Presentation of a Common Disease.	Carcinoid tumor of the mesentery has a classical imaging morphology. A specific diagnosis can often be provided on the basis of clinical history, elevated serum neuroendocrine markers, and uptake on somatostatin receptor-based radiotracer studies. Although a number of inflammatory and neoplastic conditions may mimic carcinoid tumor on many of these modalities, uptake on 	2019	eng	Case Reports	India	31293302	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293302	tuberculosis
Expert review of anti-infective therapy	Controversies in classification of peritoneal tuberculosis and a proposal for clinico-radiological classification.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31293195	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293195	tuberculosis
The Journal of antibiotics	Strategies in anti-Mycobacterium tuberculosis drug discovery based on phenotypic screening.	The rise of multi- and extensively drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tb) strains and co-infection with human immunodeficiency virus has escalated the need for new anti-M. tb drugs. Numerous challenges associated with the M. tb, in particular slow growth and pathogenicity level 3, discouraged use of this organism in past primary screening efforts. From current knowledge of the physiology and drug susceptibility of mycobacteria in general and M. tb specifically, it can be assumed that many potentially useful drug leads were missed by failing to screen directly against this pathogen. This review discusses recent high-throughput phenotypic screening strategies for anti-M. tb drug discovery. Emphasis is placed on prioritization of hits, including their extensive biological and chemical profiling, as well as the development status of promising drug candidates discovered with phenotypic screening.	2019	eng	Review	Japan	31292530	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292530	tuberculosis
Nature communications	Toxin-mediated ribosome stalling reprograms the Mycobacterium tuberculosis proteome.	Mycobacterium tuberculosis readily adapts to survive a wide range of assaults by modifying its physiology and establishing a latent tuberculosis (TB) infection. Here we report a sophisticated mode of regulation by a tRNA-cleaving toxin that enlists highly selective ribosome stalling to recalibrate the transcriptome and remodel the proteome. This toxin, MazF-mt9, exclusively inactivates one isoacceptor tRNA, tRNA	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292443	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292443	tuberculosis
mSphere	mSphere of Influence: Clearing a Path for High-Resolution Visualization of Host-Pathogen Interactions 	Shumin Tan works in the field of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31292229	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292229	tuberculosis
Systematic reviews	Mapping evidence on tuberculosis active case finding policies, strategies, and interventions for tuberculosis key populations: a systematic scoping review protocol.	We anticipate that the mapped evidence will help reveal diverse active TB case finding policies, strategies, and interventions to help inform future adoption and implementation to reduce TB missing cases worldwide. We also anticipated that the results of the proposed scoping review will help reveal research gaps, which can be addressed to ensure early detection and treatment of TB among key populations. The proposed study will may as well contribute to healthcare systems strengthening and improve research in TB key populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291993	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291993	tuberculosis
BMC pulmonary medicine	Frequency and patterns of second-line resistance conferring mutations among MDR-TB isolates resistant to a second-line drug from eSwatini, Somalia and Uganda (2014-2016).	The frequency of resistance mutations to second-line anti-TB drugs in MDR-TB isolates resistant to second line anti-TB drugs from eSwatini, Somalia and Uganda is high, implying that rapid molecular tests are useful in detecting second-line anti-TB drug resistance in those countries. Relatedly, the frequency of fluoroquinolone resistance mutations in gyrB/QRDR is high relative to global estimates, and they occurred independently of gyrA/QRDR mutations implying that their absence in panels of molecular tests for detecting fluoroquinolone resistance may yield false negative results in our setting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291943	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291943	tuberculosis
Tropical doctor	Cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test: a novel rapid diagnostic tool to study the burden of tuberculosis from a tertiary care hospital.	Despite efforts to limit the morbidity and mortality from tuberculosis (TB), it continues to be an important cause of death. There is an urgent need for a diagnostic test that accurately and quickly diagnoses TB, especially if it is also a near-point-of-care test. The GeneXpert polymerase chain reaction test (known in India as CBNAAT [cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test] and is capable of diagnosing TB and rifampicin resistance within 2 h) is a promising tool. The duration of our study was two years and was carried out in the DOTS centre of a tertiary care hospital in India. A total of 5449 samples were processed using CBNAAT. Of the total samples tested, 2068 were extra-pulmonary. The following information was collected: number of extra-pulmonary samples processed; number of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291848	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291848	tuberculosis
Virulence	Differential determinants of virulence in two 	The heterogeneity of the clinical outcome of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291814	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291814	tuberculosis
PloS one	Barriers to access and adherence to tuberculosis services, as perceived by patients: A qualitative study in Mozambique.	TB patients in central Mozambique identified many challenges to effectively preventing, diagnosing and treating tuberculosis. Awareness strengthening in the community, continuous quality monitoring and in-service training is needed to increase screening, diagnosis and treatment for TB, HIV/TB and MDR-TB.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291352	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291352	tuberculosis
PloS one	Outcome of inadvertent high dose BCG administration in newborns at a tertiary care hospital, Karachi- Case series.	Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine is given to newborns soon after birth. BCG vaccine overdose has been rarely reported. Here we report the outcome of newborns who accidently received high dose BCG at a tertiary care hospital, Karachi. We reviewed records of 26 newborns, who accidentally received intradermal high dose BCG, used for the treatment of urinary bladder cancers and 80 times higher dose than the BCG used for routine vaccination. The incident happened from 14-16th April, 2016 at Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi. Analysis was carried out using SPSS. A total of 23/26(88.5%) newborns were followed for atleast 3 months and 11/26 (42.3%) were followed for atleast one year. 13/26 (50%) were male. All 26 patients were prescribed isoniazid and rifampicin for 3 months. 3/26 (11.5%) were lost to follow-up before completion of anti-tuberculous drugs (ATT). Lesions at the BCG site were observed in 16/26 (61.5%) infants, of which 15 (93.8%) had a papule, 3 (18.8%) developed a pustule, 3 (18.8%) had skin induration and 2 (12.5%) had skin erythema. Axillary lymphadenopathy was observed in 1/26 (3.8%) patient. Coagulation was deranged in 3/26 (11.5%) of babies. Intracranial bleeding was observed in 1/26 (3.8%) case. Localized skin lesions were the most common adverse events. None of them developed clinical tuberculosis. Chemoprophylaxis for inadvertent high dose BCG administration should be given for atleast 3 months. Furthermore, vigilant follow-up, transparency and disclosure are the vital steps in the management of any medical error.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291329	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291329	tuberculosis
Journal of the International AIDS Society	Cardiopulmonary dysfunction in perinatally HIV-infected South African adolescents on antiretroviral therapy: baseline findings from the Cape Town Adolescent Antiretroviral Cohort.	Despite being on ART, cardiopulmonary dysfunction occurs in an appreciable proportion of perinatally HIV-infected adolescents but no significant difference to uninfected controls. This finding requires further exploration. Factors associated with dysfunction may be amenable to public health interventions to reduce cardiopulmonary disease in this population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31291058	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291058	tuberculosis
Database : the journal of biological databases and curation	MycoResistance: a curated resource of drug resistance molecules in Mycobacteria.	The emergence and spread of drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis is of global concern. To improve the understanding of drug resistance in Mycobacteria, numerous studies have been performed to discover diagnostic markers and genetic determinants associated with resistance to anti-tuberculosis drug. However, the related information is scattered in a massive body of literature, which is inconvenient for researchers to investigate the molecular mechanism of drug resistance. Therefore, we manually collected 1707 curated associations between 73 compounds and 132 molecules (including coding genes and non-coding RNAs) in 6 mycobacterial species from 465 studies. The experimental details of molecular epidemiology and mechanism exploration research were also summarized and recorded in our work. In addition, multidrug resistance and extensively drug resistance molecules were also extracted to interpret the molecular mechanisms that are responsible for cross resistance among anti-tuberculosis drugs. Finally, we constructed an omnibus repository named MycoResistance, a user friendly interface to conveniently browse, search and download all related entries. We hope that this elaborate database will serve as a beneficial resource for mechanism explanations, precise diagnosis and effective treatment of drug-resistant mycobacterial strains.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31290951	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290951	tuberculosis
Lung India : official organ of Indian Chest Society	Hodgkin's lymphoma with cavitating lung lesion mimicking tuberculosis: A rare presentation.	 	2019	eng	Letter	India	31290428	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290428	tuberculosis
Lung India : official organ of Indian Chest Society	The clinico-radiological profile of obliterative bronchiolitis in a tertiary care center.	OB is one of the major causes of CAO. HRCT of the chest with expiratory scans plays a important role in the diagnosis. Early diagnosis can prevent irrevocable complications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31290416	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290416	tuberculosis
mBio	Bactericidal Disruption of Magnesium Metallostasis in Mycobacterium tuberculosis Is Counteracted by Mutations in the Metal Ion Transporter CorA.	A defining characteristic of treating tuberculosis is the need for prolonged administration of multiple drugs. This may be due in part to subpopulations of slowly replicating or nonreplicating 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31289182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289182	tuberculosis
BMJ case reports	Tuberculosis of lunate as an isolated intraosseous osteolytic lesion in an adult: a diagnostic challenge.	In an endemic zone of tuberculosis (TB), osseous involvement is a relatively common presentation. Spine and long bones are the the most common nidus of TB. Smaller bones and joints are relatively less involved. Thorough clinical examination and history of typical constitutional symptoms like weight loss, fever and loss of appetite are the diagnostic aids for initiating early treatment. Wrist and hand involvement is a rare occurrence and often presents atypically without any obvious symptoms or signs. This results in delayed diagnosis and worse outcome. TB of lunate without articular involvement is a very rare subset and we present such an isolated case of TB involving the lunate, without any typical symptoms, with the patient complaining of vague pain without any restriction of joint mobility. TB was diagnosed with the aid of radiology, haematology and histopathology. 18 months of multidrug antitubercular treatment was given, to which the patient responded well.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289163	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289163	tuberculosis
BMJ open	Delayed diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis in high-burden countries: a systematic review protocol.	CRD42018107237.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289094	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289094	tuberculosis
BMJ open	3Ts of low cure rate: taxonomy, themes and theory of low cure rate in Pakistan's TB control programme and gathering a 360-degree perspective through qualitative, in-depth interviewing approach.	Change in programme reporting requirement has demeaned the significance of having cure as treatment outcome. Therefore, returning the focus to achieving cure status for TB cases will be beneficial for assessing the effectiveness of TB control efforts. In parallel to the care delivery system, a mechanism for disseminating disease-related and treatment-related information should be introduced.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289061	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289061	tuberculosis
Enfermeria clinica	The relationship between family's informational support and self-efficacy of pulmonary tuberculosis client.	The study concluded that informational support is important for tuberculosis treatment. This study recommends empowering family in providing informational support to increase the self-efficacy among tuberculosis clients.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31289008	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289008	tuberculosis
Translational research : the journal of laboratory and clinical medicine	Morphology-based classification of mycobacteria-infected macrophages with convolutional neural network: reveal EsxA-induced morphologic changes indistinguishable by naked eyes.	EsxA is an essential virulence factor for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) pathogenesis as well as an important biomarker for Mtb detection. In this study, we use light microscopy and deep learning-based image analysis to classify the morphologic changes of macrophages infected by Mycobacterium marinum (Mm), a surrogate model for Mtb. Macrophages were infected either with the mCherry-expressing Mm wild type strain (Mm(WT)), or a mutant strain with deletion of the esxA-esxB operon (Mm(ΔEsxA:B)). The mCherry serves as an infection marker to train the convolution neural network (CNN) and to validate the classification results. Data show that CNN can distinguish the Mm(WT)-infected cells from uninfected cells with an accuracy of 92.4% at 2 hours postinfection (hpi). However, the accuracy at 12 and 24 hpi is decreased to ∼75% and ∼83%, respectively, suggesting dynamic morphologic changes through different stages of infection. The accuracy of discriminating Mm(ΔEsxA:B)-infected cells from uninfected cells is lower than 80% at all time, which is consistent to attenuated virulence of Mm(ΔEsxA:B). Interestingly, CNN distinguishes Mm(WT)-infected cells from Mm(ΔEsxA:B)-infected cells with ∼90% accuracy, implicating EsxA induces unique morphologic changes in macrophages. Deconvolutional analysis successfully reconstructed the morphologic features used by CNN for classification, which are indistinguishable to naked eyes and distinct from intracellular mycobacteria. This study presents a deep learning-aided imaging analytical tool that can accurately detect virulent mycobacteria-infected macrophages by cellular morphologic changes. The observed morphologic changes induced by EsxA warrant further studies to fill the gap from molecular actions of bacterial virulence factors to cellular morphology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287998	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287998	tuberculosis
PloS one	Assessing the quality and accuracy of national immunization program reported target population estimates from 2000 to 2016.	Applying a set of criteria to assess reported target populations used to estimate administrative vaccination coverage can flag potential quality issues related to the national denominators and may be useful to help monitor ongoing efforts to improve the quality of vaccination coverage estimates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287824	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287824	tuberculosis
PLoS medicine	Accelerating the transition of new tuberculosis drug combinations from Phase II to Phase III trials: New technologies and innovative designs.	Geraint Davies and colleagues discuss the potential for innovative early-phase clinical trial methods and technologies to reduce risk and speed up drug development for tuberculosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287813	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287813	tuberculosis
The American journal of tropical medicine and hygiene	Epidemic Situation of Tuberculosis in Prisons in the Central Region of China.	We aimed to investigate the epidemic situation of tuberculosis (TB) in prisons in the central region of China. Tuberculosis screening was carried out in two prisons in middle China. A sum of 3,459 prisoners accepted chest X-ray examination; 40 of them were diagnosed as active TB patients. The active TB prevalence (1,156/10	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287047	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287047	tuberculosis
BMC genomics	Reference genome and comparative genome analysis for the WHO reference strain for Mycobacterium bovis BCG Danish, the present tuberculosis vaccine.	We demonstrate how this analysis workflow enables the resolution of genome duplications and of the genome of engineered derivatives of the BCG Danish vaccine strain. The BCG Danish WHO reference genome will serve as a reference for future engineered strains and the established workflow can be used to enhance BCG vaccine standardization.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31286858	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286858	tuberculosis
Canadian journal of public health = Revue canadienne de sante publique	Tuberculosis in Canada and the United States: a review of trends from 1953 to 2015.	Case definition change and HIV coinfection contributed to the 1980 US rate increase. TB rates decreased in both countries from 1997, but more rapidly in the USA. The Canada proportion of foreign-born and Indigenous populations was higher. When US rates were standardized by Canada ethnic distribution, the national rates were similar. Further exploration of factors contributing to differences between these countries is needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31286461	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286461	tuberculosis
Canadian journal of public health = Revue canadienne de sante publique	Tuberculosis among northern Manitoba First Nations, 2008-2012: program performance on- and off-reserve.	TB program performance varies depending on residence in a reserve or non-reserve community. Action is urgently needed to address TB program performance in terms of contact investigation and HIV testing/reporting for First Nations off-reserve and to address high rates of pediatric TB in northern Manitoba. First Nations collaboration and models of care should be considered both on- and off-reserve to improve TB program performance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31286459	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286459	tuberculosis
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Etiology of Pulmonary Infections in Human Immunodeficiency Virus-infected Inpatients Using Sputum Multiplex Real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction.	Sputum multiplex PCR could become a useful diagnostic tool for bacterial respiratory infections in HIV-infected inpatients, but its value is limited as quantitative cutoffs have only been established for a few bacterial pathogens and validation has not been done in this patient population. We found a high prevalence of respiratory viruses, but it is unclear whether these viruses were causing infection as there are no accepted quantitative PCR cutoffs for diagnosing respiratory viral infections.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31286137	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286137	tuberculosis
Journal of public health in Africa	Isoniazid Preventative Therapy uptake for child household contacts of tuberculosis index cases, Kisumu County, Kenya, 2014-2015.	Isoniazid Preventative Therapy (IPT) is recommended for children aged less than 5 years that have been in contact with an open case of TB, and screen negative for TB, to prevent the risk of TB progression. We examined IPT uptake among child household contacts of TB index cases, within a TB case detection study, in a high TB burden region. A cross-sectional study involving all IPT-eligible children drawn from a TB case detection study was done in Kisumu County, Kenya between 2014 and 2015. By linking a subset of the study database to the TB program IPT register, we described Child contacts as 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31285812	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285812	tuberculosis
Journal of public health in Africa	Potential benefits and harms of the use of UV radiation in transmission of tuberculosis in South African health facilities.	The incidence and prevalence of transmitted 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31285811	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285811	tuberculosis
Bioinformation	Classification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis DR, MDR,XDR Isolates and Identification of Signature MutationPattern of Drug Resistance.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Singapore	31285643	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285643	tuberculosis
Nature microbiology	CYRI/FAM49B negatively regulates RAC1-driven cytoskeletal remodelling and protects against bacterial infection.	Salmonella presents a global public health concern. Central to Salmonella pathogenicity is an ability to subvert host defences through strategically targeting host proteins implicated in restricting infection. Therefore, to gain insight into the host-pathogen interactions governing Salmonella infection, we performed an in vivo genome-wide mutagenesis screen to uncover key host defence proteins. This revealed an uncharacterized role of CYRI (FAM49B) in conferring host resistance to Salmonella infection. We show that CYRI binds to the small GTPase RAC1 through a conserved domain present in CYFIP proteins, which are known RAC1 effectors that stimulate actin polymerization. However, unlike CYFIP proteins, CYRI negatively regulates RAC1 signalling, thereby attenuating processes such as macropinocytosis, phagocytosis and cell migration. This enables CYRI to counteract Salmonella at various stages of infection, including bacterial entry into non-phagocytic and phagocytic cells as well as phagocyte-mediated bacterial dissemination. Intriguingly, to dampen its effects, the bacterial effector SopE, a RAC1 activator, selectively targets CYRI following infection. Together, this outlines an intricate host-pathogen signalling interplay that is crucial for determining bacterial fate. Notably, our study also outlines a role for CYRI in restricting infection mediated by Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Listeria monocytogenes. This provides evidence implicating CYRI cellular functions in host defence beyond Salmonella infection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285585	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285585	tuberculosis
Journal of bacteriology	Insights into the physiology and metabolism of a mycobacterial cell in an energy-compromised state.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31285242	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285242	tuberculosis
Journal of bacteriology	None	The cell envelope of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31285241	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285241	tuberculosis
Antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy	NU-6027 inhibits growth of 	Tuberculosis (TB) is a global health concern and this situation has further worsened due to the emergence of drug resistant strains and failure of BCG vaccine to impart protection. There is an imperative need to develop highly sensitive, specific diagnostic tools, novel therapeutics and vaccines for the eradication of TB. In the present study, a chemical screen of pharmacologically active compounds library was performed to identify anti-mycobacterial compounds. The phenotypic screen identified few novel small molecule inhibitors including NU-6027, a known CDK-2 inhibitor. We demonstrate that NU-6027 inhibits 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31285226	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285226	tuberculosis
The lancet. HIV	Advanced HIV: diagnosis, treatment, and prevention.	Substantial progress has been made this century in bringing millions of people living with HIV into care, but progress for early HIV diagnosis has stalled. Individuals first diagnosed with advanced HIV have higher rates of mortality than those diagnosed at an earlier stage even after starting antiretroviral therapy (ART), resulting in substantial costs to health systems. Diagnosis of these individuals is hindered because many patients are asymptomatic, despite being severely immunosuppressed. Baseline CD4 counts and screening for opportunistic infections, such as tuberculosis and cryptococcus, is crucial because of the high mortality associated with these co-infections. Individuals with advanced HIV should have rapid ART initiation (except when found to have symptoms, signs, or a diagnosis of cryptococcal meningitis) and those in treatment failure should switch treatment. Overcoming barriers to testing and adherence through the development of differentiated care models and providing psychosocial support will be key in reaching populations at high risk of presenting with advanced HIV.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31285181	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285181	tuberculosis
Clinical microbiology and infection : the official publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases	Profiling infectious diseases in Turkey after the influx of 3.5 million Syrian refugees.	Since the influx of Syrian refugees, there is an increase in the cases of leishmaniasis and measles. No significant increase was detected in tuberculosis, other vectorborn infections, healthcare associated or sexually transmitted infections. The Syrian refugees can be considered as a vulnerable group in Turkey due to their living and working conditions. Based on available data and our detailed analysis, the numbers are showing a stable situation regarding infectious diseases.	2019	eng	Review	England	31284037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284037	tuberculosis
PloS one	High risk for latent tuberculosis infection among medical residents and nursing students in India.	Defining occupational latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) risk among healthcare workers is needed to support implementation of prevention guidelines. Prospective cohort study of 200 medical residents and nursing students in India was conducted May 2016-December 2017. Tuberculin skin test (TST) and QuantiFERON TB Gold Test-in-tube (QFT-GIT) were performed at study entry and 12 months. Primary outcome was incident LTBI (≥10mm TST induration and/or ≥0.35IU/mL QFT-GIT) at 12 months; secondary outcomes included baseline LTBI prevalence and risk factors for incident and prevalent LTBI using Poisson regression. Among 200, [90 nursing students and 110 medical residents], LTBI prevalence was 30% (95% CI, 24-37); LTBI incidence was 26.8 (95% CI, 18.6-37.2) cases per 100 person-years and differed by testing method (28.7 [95% CI, 20.6-38.9] vs 17.4 [95% CI, 11.5-25.4] cases per 100 person-years using TST and QFT-GIT, respectively). Medical residents had two-fold greater risk of incident LTBI than nursing students (Relative Risk, 2.16; 95% CI, 1.05-4.42). During study period 6 (3%) HCWs were diagnosed with active TB disease. Overall, median number of self-reported TB exposures was 5 (Interquartile Range, 1-15). Of 60 participants with prevalent and incident LTBI who were offered free isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT), only 2 participants initiated and completed IPT. High risk for LTBI was noted among medical residents compared to nursing students. Self-reported TB exposure is underreported, and uptake of LTBI prevention therapy remains low. New approaches are needed to identify HCWs at highest risk for LTBI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31283794	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283794	tuberculosis
Pediatric emergency care	Abdominal Tuberculosis in an Infant Presenting With a Small Bowel Obstruction.	Abdominal tuberculosis (TB) is rare in children and usually spread in the peritoneum or gastrointestinal tract. Symptoms tend to be vague and nonspecific, with no extra-abdominal involvement, presenting a challenge for clinicians and delayed diagnosis. Postnatally acquired abdominal TB is most commonly transmitted through inhalation or ingestion of respiratory droplets with Mycobacterium tuberculosis from the mother.Abdominal TB in infants is rare. We present a case of a 2-month-old infant presenting with an acute bowel obstruction secondary to abdominal TB acquired through contact with maternal TB mastitis. This unique case emphasizes the importance of considering abdominal TB in the differential for at-risk infants presenting with small bowel obstruction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31283724	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283724	tuberculosis
Clinical nuclear medicine	Thymic Tuberculosis Shown on FDG PET/CT Despite Coexisting Pulmonary Tuberculosis With No Increased FDG Activity.	Extrapulmonary tuberculosis could involve multiple organs. However, thymic tuberculosis is relatively rare. We report a 21-year-old man who was referred for an F-FDG PET/CT imaging to assess his newly detected pulmonary nodule. The images showed the pulmonary nodule had minimal activity uptake. Unexpectedly, the thymus with elevated FDG accumulation was noted. The pulmonary nodule and thymic lesion were confirmed as tuberculosis by pathology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31283603	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283603	tuberculosis
Journal of cellular physiology	Hepatocyte growth factor enhances the clearance of a multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain by high doses of conventional chemotherapy, preserving liver function.	Tuberculosis (TB) is one of the deadliest infectious diseases in humankind history. Although, drug sensible TB is slowly decreasing, at present the rise of TB cases produced by multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant strains is a big challenge. Thus, looking for new therapeutic options against these MDR strains is mandatory. In the present work, we studied, in BALB/c mice infected with MDR strain, the therapeutic effect of supra-pharmacological doses of the conventional primary antibiotics rifampicin and isoniazid (administrated by gavage or intratracheal routes), in combination with recombinant human hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). This high dose of antibiotics administered for 3 months, overcome the resistant threshold of the MDR strain producing a significant reduction of pulmonary bacillary loads but induced liver damage, which was totally prevented by the administration of HGF. To address the long-term efficiency of this combined treatment, groups of animals after 1 month of treatment termination were immunosuppressed by glucocorticoid administration and, after 1 month, mice were euthanized, and the bacillary load was determined in lungs. In comparison with animals treated only with a high dose of antibiotics, animals that received the combined treatment showed significantly lower bacterial burdens. Thus, treatment of MDR-TB with very high doses of primary antibiotics particularly administrated by aerial route can produce a very good therapeutic effect, and its hepatic toxicity can be prevented by the administration of HGF, becoming in a new treatment modality for MDR-TB.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31283037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283037	tuberculosis
Journal of medicinal chemistry	Development of inhibitors against Mycobacterium abscessus tRNA (m1G37) methyltransferase (TrmD) using fragment-based approaches.	Mycobacterium abscessus (Mab) is a rapidly growing species of multidrug-resistant nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) that has emerged as a growing threat to individuals with cystic fibrosis, and other pre-existing chronic lung diseases. Mab pulmonary infections are difficult, or sometimes impossible, to treat and result in accelerated lung function decline and premature death. There is therefore an urgent need to develop novel antibiotics with improved efficacy. tRNA (m1G37) methyltransferase (TrmD) is a promising target for novel antibiotics. It is essential in Mab and other mycobacteria, improving reading frame maintenance on the ribosome to prevent frameshift errors. In this work a fragment-based approach was employed with the merging of two fragments bound to the active site, followed by structure-guided elaboration to design potent nanomolar inhibitors against Mab TrmD. Several of these compounds exhibit promising activity against mycobacterial species, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium leprae in addition to Mab, supporting the use of TrmD as a target for the development of antimycobacterial compounds.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282680	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282680	tuberculosis
Acta crystallographica. Section D, Structural biology	Crystal structures of the closed form of Mycobacterium tuberculosis dihydrofolate reductase in complex with dihydrofolate and antifolates.	Tuberculosis is a disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis and is the leading cause of death from a single infectious pathogen, with a high prevalence in developing countries in Africa and Asia. There still is a need for the development or repurposing of novel therapies to combat this disease owing to the long-term nature of current therapies and because of the number of reported resistant strains. Here, structures of dihydrofolate reductase from M. tuberculosis (MtDHFR), which is a key target of the folate pathway, are reported in complex with four antifolates, pyrimethamine, cycloguanil, diaverdine and pemetrexed, and its substrate dihydrofolate in order to understand their binding modes. The structures of all of these complexes were obtained in the closed-conformation state of the enzyme and a fine structural analysis indicated motion in key regions of the substrate-binding site and different binding modes of the ligands. In addition, the affinities, through K	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282477	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282477	tuberculosis
Journal of X-ray science and technology	Correlation between 18F-FDG PET CT SUV and symptomatic or asymptomatic pulmonary tuberculosis.	The symptomatic pulmonary tuberculosis cases show significantly higher SUVmax than the asymptomatic cases. Based on the criteria of SUVmax greater than 2.0 to define active lesions, 100% of symptomatic cases might have active lesions while 70.4% of asymptomatic cases might have active lesions. Therefore, focused attention should be clinically paid on the asymptomatic cases of pulmonary tuberculosis to avoid miss diagnosis and delayed treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31282469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282469	tuberculosis
Open forum infectious diseases	Plasma Proinflammatory Cytokines Are Markers of Disease Severity and Bacterial Burden in Pulmonary Tuberculosis.	Therefore, our data demonstrate that PTB is associated with heightened levels of plasma proinflammatory cytokines, which are reversed after chemotherapy. Our data also reveal that proinflammatory cytokines are markers of disease severity, bacterial burden, and delayed culture conversion in PTB.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31281858	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281858	tuberculosis
Cureus	Incidence of Multidrug-resistant Tuberculosis in Sindh, Pakistan.	Introduction Pakistan carries a high burden of pulmonary tuberculosis. Resistance to anti-tuberculosis drugs is increasing rapidly in this region. The purpose of this study is to determine the incidence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in Sindh, Pakistan. Methods We conducted a prospective, observational study in the department of pulmonology at Civil Hospital, Jamshoro. A total of 169 patients with smear-positive sputum after two months of compliant therapy with first line anti-tuberculosis therapy (ATT) were included in the study. Drug susceptibility testing was performed; this involved the preparation and testing of a concentration series of drugs against the Mycobacterium (M.) tuberculosis complex. Data were analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) software Version 18.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, US). Results Overall, the frequency of MDR-TB patients being treated with first-line ATT was 40.2% (68/169). Among these cases of MDR-TB, there were 36 (53%) men and 32 (47%) women. The most common second-line drug resistance was to ofloxacin (43.2%; n=73). Conclusions The growing drug resistance of M. tuberculosis is a problem in Pakistan, and measures should be taken to reduce the incidence of resistance, including increasing patient compliance to therapy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31281754	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281754	tuberculosis
Oxford medical case reports	Endobronchial fungal infection caused by 	Endobronchial fungal infection (EBFI) is a rare form of pulmonary fungal infection that especially affects immunocompromised patients. Furthermore, EBFI resulting in obstruction of the main bronchus is extremely rare. With the development of bronchoscopic techniques, rare cases of EBFI have been reported. A 68-year-old female was referred to the Department of Pulmonology for confusion and obtundation. The patient was diagnosed with septic shock due to acute pyelonephritis followed by obstructive EBFI. We performed bronchoscopic biopsy and endobronchial aspiration for culture. Biopsy showed yeast-like fungus and 	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31281663	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281663	tuberculosis
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	Differential microRNA expression profile in the plasma of preeclampsia and normal pregnancies.	Preeclampsia is a common disease in pregnant women that can only be diagnosed from 20 weeks after fertilization. Developing early diagnosis markers is urgent and would be helpful in selecting appropriate treatment strategies. The present study aimed to identify the differential expression profiles of microRNAs in the plasma between patients with preeclampsia and normal pregnancies using microarray methods. Using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), the differentially expressed microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) identified from the microarray analysis were validated. A total of 3 miRNAs, including hsa-miR-1304-5p, hsa-miR-320a and hsa-miR-5002-5p, were upregulated in the plasma of patients with preeclampsia pregnancies. Examination of the functions of these miRNAs demonstrated that they were involved in cell proliferation, indicating that preeclampsia affected this pathway. In addition, 26 downregulated miRNAs were identified by microarray methods. The functions of these miRNAs included immune regulation, vascular development, cancer pathology and pathology of other disease (tuberculosis, oligozoospermia, psoriasis and Alzheimer's disease). Using qPCR, the most differentially expressed miRNAs were confirmed to be hsa-miR-1304-5p, hsa-miR-320a and hsa-miR-5002-5p, which were upregulated, as well as hsa-miR-188-3p, hsa-miR-211-5p, hiv1-miR-TAR-3p, hsa-miR-4432 and hsa-miR-4498 that were significantly downregulated in the plasma of preeclampsia patients. The present findings may be useful in the development of early diagnosis markers and treatment targets for preeclampsia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31281456	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281456	tuberculosis
International journal of microbiology	None	Bovine tuberculosis (bTB) is a highly transmissible infection and remains of great concern as a zoonosis. The worldwide incidence of bTB is in rise, creating potential reservoir and increased infection risk for humans and animals. In attempts to identify novel surface antigens of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Egypt	31281365	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281365	tuberculosis
Frontiers in microbiology	On the Impact of the Pangenome and Annotation Discrepancies While Building Protein Sequence Databases for Bacteria Proteogenomics.	In proteomics, peptide information within mass spectrometry (MS) data from a specific organism sample is routinely matched against a protein sequence database that best represent such organism. However, if the species/strain in the sample is unknown or genetically poorly characterized, it becomes challenging to determine a database which can represent such sample. Building customized protein sequence databases merging multiple strains for a given species has become a strategy to overcome such restrictions. However, as more genetic information is publicly available and interesting genetic features such as the existence of pan- and core genes within a species are revealed, we questioned how efficient such merging strategies are to report relevant information. To test this assumption, we constructed databases containing conserved and unique sequences for 10 different species. Features that are relevant for probabilistic-based protein identification by proteomics were then monitored. As expected, increase in database complexity correlates with pangenomic complexity. However, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31281302	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281302	tuberculosis
Mediators of inflammation	IL-10 Dampens the Th1 and Tc Activation through Modulating DC Functions in BCG Vaccination.	BCG, the only registered vaccine against 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31281230	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281230	tuberculosis
The Lancet. Infectious diseases	The burden of latent multidrug-resistant tuberculosis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31281060	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281060	tuberculosis
The Lancet. Infectious diseases	Global burden of latent multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: trends and estimates based on mathematical modelling.	UK Medical Research Council, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and European Research Council.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31281059	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281059	tuberculosis
Bioorganic & medicinal chemistry letters	Bis(benzoyl) phosphate inactivators of beta-lactamase C from Mtb.	The class A β-lactamase BlaC is a cell surface expressed serine hydrolase of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), one of the causative agents for Tuberculosis in humans. Mtb has demonstrated increased susceptibility to β-lactam antibiotics upon inactivation of BlaC; thus, making BlaC a rational enzyme target for therapeutic agents. Herein, we present the synthesis and structure-activity-relationship data for the 1st-generation library of bis(benzoyl) phosphates (1-10). Substituent effects ranged from σ	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31281019	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281019	tuberculosis
Bioorganic & medicinal chemistry letters	Rifamycin derivatives active against pathogenic rapidly-growing mycobacteria.	Infections due to rapidly growing mycobacteria (RGM), and in particular the RGM species Mycobacterium abscessus (Mab), are very difficult to treat and reports on novel therapeutic options are scarce. A hallmark of all pathogenic RGM species is their resistance to the four first-line drugs used to treat infections with Mycobacterium tuberculosis including rifampicin. This study demonstrates that modification of the rifampicin scaffold can restore rifampicin activity against the three most commonly isolated pathogenic RGM species including Mab. We also note that the structure-activity relationship for Mab is different as compared to the non-pathogenic RGM species Mycobacterium smegmatis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31281018	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281018	tuberculosis
Infection, genetics and evolution : journal of molecular epidemiology and evolutionary genetics in infectious diseases	The spatio-temporal analysis of the incidence of tuberculosis and the associated factors in mainland China, 2009-2015.	Socio-economic, number of health personnel, demographic and meteorological factors could affect the case notification number of TB to different degrees and in different directions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279820	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279820	tuberculosis
EBioMedicine	mTORC2/Akt activation in adipocytes is required for adipose tissue inflammation in tuberculosis.	Our study reveals a systemic response to aerosol M. tuberculosis infection that regulates adipose tissue lipid homeostasis through mTORC2/Akt signaling in adipocytes. Adipose tissue inflammation in TB is not simply a passive infiltration with leukocytes but requires the mechanistic participation of adipocyte signals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279779	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279779	tuberculosis
International journal of medical microbiology : IJMM	Assessing capreomycin resistance on tlyA deficient and point mutation (G695A) Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains using multi-omics analysis.	Capreomycin (CAP), a cyclic peptide antibiotic, is considered to be an ideal second-line drug for tuberculosis (TB). However, in the past few years, the emergence of more CAP-resistant (CAP	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31279617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279617	tuberculosis
Diagnostic microbiology and infectious disease	Defining threshold values in microscopic examination and qPCR for optimal performance of line probe assays for resistance detection in Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex.	Line probe assays enable rapid detection of drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis directly from clinical specimens. This study shows that defining threshold values in microscopic examination or PCR detection of M. tuberculosis optimizes line probe assay efficiency, thereby avoiding costs and loss of time due to unnecessary molecular testing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279584	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279584	tuberculosis
Infection, genetics and evolution : journal of molecular epidemiology and evolutionary genetics in infectious diseases	RIPK2 polymorphisms and susceptibility to tuberculosis in a Western Chinese Han population.	Our findings firstly exhibit that the G allele of rs39509 in nearGene-3 region of RIPK2 might serve as a hazard for TB in this Western Chinese Han population. Further validation studies on a variety of ethnic populations and function experiments are needed to confirm the roles of the variants identified.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279003	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279003	tuberculosis
Tropical medicine & international health : TM & IH	High incidence of drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Hainan island, China.	Our data provide the first primary understanding of the drug-resistant TB epidemic in Hainan. The high incidence of drug resistance, especially RIF- and FQ-resistance, highlight the importance of interventions for preventing epidemics of drug-resistant TB. Younger age is an independent predictor of MDR-TB, reflecting the potential transmission in this population. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31278806	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278806	tuberculosis
Biophysical reviews	Summary of case study lecture at Biophysics and Structural Biology at Synchrotrons Workshop Triumph over Adversity: structure of arylamine N-acetyltransferase from M. tuberculosis.	 	2019	eng	Letter	Germany	31278589	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278589	tuberculosis
Current treatment options in neurology	Treatment Strategies for Neuroretinitis: Current Options and Emerging Therapies.	The optimum treatment strategy for neuroretinitis due to Bartonella henselae in immunocompetent individuals is not clear and a matter of debate. The role of systemic corticosteroids in infectious neuroretinitis and the optimum immunosuppressive regimen for use in recurrent idiopathic neuroretinitis also remains ill defined. There is no class 1 evidence to support a specific treatment strategy for neuroretinitis. For uncomplicated B. henselae-associated neuroretinitis in immunocompetent patients, initiation of antibiotic and corticosteroid therapy remains controversial. In patients with severe vision loss and/or moderate to severe systemic symptoms, a 4- to 6-week regimen of doxycycline or azithromycin with rifampin may provide some benefit. The routine use of systemic corticosteroids in infectious neuroretinitis is not recommended. Targeted antimicrobial agents should be instituted in cases of neuroretinitis due to specific infectious etiologies (e.g., syphilis, Lyme disease, tuberculosis). Azathioprine may be beneficial in cases of recurrent idiopathic neuroretinitis. There is a need for collaborative, multicenter prospective studies to provide definitive guidelines regarding the use of antibiotics and corticosteroids and to evaluate future therapies in infectious and recurrent idiopathic neuroretinitis.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31278547	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278547	tuberculosis
International journal of medical microbiology : IJMM	The multicopper oxidase of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MmcO) exhibits ferroxidase activity and scavenges reactive oxygen species in activated THP-1 cells.	The MmcO protein of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a membrane-associated multicopper oxidase. Its natural substrate(s) and its role in pathogenesis are not well characterized. A recent report proposes that MmcO contributes to copper resistance in M. tuberculosis during infection. We have expressed and reconstituted the active enzyme from inclusion bodies in E. coli. MmcO exhibits maximal activity against the experimental substrate 2,2'-azino-bis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphonic acid) or ABTS, at pH 4. The enzyme also exhibits ferroxidase activity at pH 4. Most notable was the finding that MmcO is able to scavenge the reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by the xanthine/xanthine oxidase enzyme system. This ROS scavenging activity of MmcO was also evident against ROS generated by THP-1 cells. We propose that MmcO protects M. tuberculosis during infection against ROS attack in addition to providing copper resistance to the pathogen.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31278055	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278055	tuberculosis
Enfermeria clinica	Utilization of interactive educational media in improving self efficacy of lung tuberculosis patients: Systematic literature review.	Innovative strategies are needed in an effort to improve self-efficacy. The number of media can be a reference for health workers in implementing a tuberculosis treatment program that will enhance client self-efficacy.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31277933	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277933	tuberculosis
Ophthalmology. Retina	The Pitchfork Sign: A Novel OCT Feature of Choroidal Neovascularization in Tuberculosis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31277802	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277802	tuberculosis
BMC infectious diseases	Critical role of molecular test in early diagnosis of gastric tuberculosis: a rare case report and review of literature.	Clinical presentation of gastric tuberculosis is not specific.When granuloma or caseation is detected on biopsy in patients who are suspected of having gastric malignancy or acid peptic diseases, polymerase chain reaction for Mycobacterium tuberculosis could be used as an available and sensitive diagnostic test in addition to pathology, acid-fast bacilli smear staining and culture.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31277586	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277586	tuberculosis
BMC microbiology	Variation in Mycobacterium bovis genetic richness suggests that inwards cattle movements are a more important source of infection in beef herds than in dairy herds.	The principal finding is that low MLVA genotype richness indicates that small-scale epidemics, e.g. wildlife, contiguous farms, and within-herd recrudescence, are important routes of M. bovis infection in cattle herds. We hypothesise that these mechanisms will maintain, but may not explicitly increase, MLVA genotype richness. The presence of elevated MLVA richness is relatively rare and likely indicates beef fattening enterprises, which purchase cattle from over long distances. Cattle movements were furthermore an important predictor of MLVA genotype richness in non-dairy herds, but not in dairy herds; this may represent reduced cattle purchasing levels in dairy enterprises, compared to beef. These observations allude to the relative contribution of different routes of bTB infection between production types; we posit that infection associated with local factors may be more evident in dairy herds than beef herds, however in beef herds, inwards movements offer additional opportunities for introducing M. bovis into the herd.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31277578	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277578	tuberculosis
Tropical medicine and infectious disease	Delays in Patient Presentation and Diagnosis for Buruli Ulcer (	Uncertainty regarding transmission pathways and control measures makes prompt presentation and diagnosis for Buruli ulcer critical. To examine presentation and diagnosis delays in Victoria, Australia, we conducted a retrospective study of 703 cases notified between 2011 and 2017, classified as residing in an endemic (Mornington Peninsula; Bellarine Peninsula; South-east Bayside and Frankston) or non-endemic area. Overall median presentation delay was 30 days (IQR 14-60 days), with no significant change over the study period (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31277453	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277453	tuberculosis
Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)	Phenolic Compounds as Promising Drug Candidates in Tuberculosis Therapy.	Tuberculosis (TB), caused by 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31277371	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277371	tuberculosis
Medicine	Pulmonary tuberculosis mimicking radiation pneumonitis in a patient with neck malignancy: A case report.	A suspicion of pulmonary TB should be given to patients with new infiltrates in radiation port due to impact of radiation therapy on local infection barriers and patients' immune system.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31277197	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277197	tuberculosis
Medicine	Tuberculous retropharyngeal abscess with Pott disease and tuberculous abscess of the chest wall: A case report.	Tuberculous retropharyngeal abscess with Pott disease and tuberculous abscess of the chest wall are both complicated diagnoses that physicians have to consider in similar patient presentations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31277156	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277156	tuberculosis
Infection, genetics and evolution : journal of molecular epidemiology and evolutionary genetics in infectious diseases	Whole genome sequencing provides additional insights into recurrent tuberculosis classified as endogenous reactivation by IS6110 DNA fingerprinting.	Recurrent tuberculosis (TB) after successful TB treatment occurs due to endogenous reactivation (relapse) or exogenous reinfection. We revisited the conclusions of relapse in a high TB incidence setting that were drawn on the basis of IS6110 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis in a large retrospective cohort study in suburban Cape Town, South Africa. Using whole genome sequencing (WGS), we undertook pair-wise genome comparison of Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains cultured from diagnostic sputum samples collected at the index and recurrent TB episode for 25 recurrent TB cases who had been classified as relapse based on identical DNA fingerprint patterns in the earlier study. We found that paired strain genome sequences were identical or showed minimal variant differences in 22 of 25 recurrent TB cases, consistent with relapse. One showed 20 variant differences, suggestive of exogenous reinfection. Two of the 25 had mixed infections, each with the index episode strain detected as the dominant strain at recurrence in one of these patients, the minority strain harboured drug-resistance conferring mutations (rpoB, katG). In conclusion, our study highlights the additional value of WGS for investigating recurrent TB in settings with high infection pressure and closely related circulating strains, where the extent of re- and mixed infection may be underestimated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31276801	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276801	tuberculosis
PLoS medicine	Clinical, microbiologic, and immunologic determinants of mortality in hospitalized patients with HIV-associated tuberculosis: A prospective cohort study.	In this study, we did not identify a major contribution from coinfections to these deaths. Disseminated tuberculosis, sepsis syndrome, and rifampicin resistance were associated with mortality. An immune profile dominated by mediators of the innate immune system and chemotactic signaling was associated with both tuberculosis dissemination and mortality. These findings provide pathophysiologic insights into underlying causes of mortality and could be used to inform the development of novel treatment strategies and to develop methods to risk stratify patients to appropriately target novel interventions. Causal relationships cannot be established from this study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31276515	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276515	tuberculosis
PloS one	Integrating TB and non-communicable diseases services: Pilot experience of screening for diabetes and hypertension in patients with Tuberculosis in Luanda, Angola.	TB patients have a considerable hypertension and diabetes co-morbidity. It is possible to screen for these conditions within the DOTs centres. Integration of health services for both communicable and non-communicable diseases is desirable and recommended.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31276500	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276500	tuberculosis
Immunity	Rapid and Focused Maturation of a VRC01-Class HIV Broadly Neutralizing Antibody Lineage Involves Both Binding and Accommodation of the N276-Glycan.	The VH1-2 restricted VRC01-class of antibodies targeting the HIV envelope CD4 binding site are a major focus of HIV vaccine strategies. However, a detailed analysis of VRC01-class antibody development has been limited by the rare nature of these responses during natural infection and the lack of longitudinal sampling of such responses. To inform vaccine strategies, we mapped the development of a VRC01-class antibody lineage (PCIN63) in the subtype C infected IAVI Protocol C neutralizer PC063. PCIN63 monoclonal antibodies had the hallmark VRC01-class features and demonstrated neutralization breadth similar to the prototype VRC01 antibody, but were 2- to 3-fold less mutated. Maturation occurred rapidly within ∼24 months of emergence of the lineage and somatic hypermutations accumulated at key contact residues. This longitudinal study of broadly neutralizing VRC01-class antibody lineage reveals early binding to the N276-glycan during affinity maturation, which may have implications for vaccine design.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315032	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315032	vaccine
PLoS neglected tropical diseases	Ascertaining the burden of invasive Salmonella disease in hospitalised febrile children aged under four years in Blantyre, Malawi.	Typhoid fever is endemic across sub-Saharan Africa. However, estimates of the burden of typhoid are undermined by insufficient blood volumes and lack of sensitivity of blood culture. Here, we aimed to address this limitation by exploiting pre-enrichment culture followed by PCR, alongside routine blood culture to improve typhoid case detection. We carried out a prospective diagnostic cohort study and enrolled children (aged 0-4 years) with non-specific febrile disease admitted to a tertiary hospital in Blantyre, Malawi from August 2014 to July 2016. Blood was collected for culture (BC) and real-time PCR after a pre-enrichment culture in tryptone soy broth and ox-bile. DNA was subjected to PCR for invA (Pan-Salmonella), staG (S. Typhi), and fliC (S. Typhimurium) genes. A positive PCR was defined as invA plus either staG or fliC (CT<29). IgM and IgG ELISA against four S. Typhi antigens was also performed. In total, 643 children (median age 1.3 years) with nonspecific febrile disease were enrolled; 31 (4.8%) were BC positive for Salmonella (n = 13 S. Typhi, n = 16 S. Typhimurium, and n = 2 S. Enteritidis). Pre-enrichment culture of blood followed by PCR identified a further 8 S. Typhi and 15 S. Typhimurium positive children. IgM and IgG titres to the S. Typhi antigen STY1498 (haemolysin) were significantly higher in children that were PCR positive but blood culture negative compared to febrile children with all other non-typhoid illnesses. The addition of pre-enrichment culture and PCR increased the case ascertainment of invasive Salmonella disease in children by 62-94%. These data support recent burden estimates that highlight the insensitivity of blood cultures and support the targeting of pre-school children for typhoid vaccine prevention in Africa. Blood culture with real-time PCR following pre-enrichment should be used to further refine estimates of vaccine effectiveness in typhoid vaccine trials.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314752	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314752	vaccine
Vector borne and zoonotic diseases (Larchmont, N.Y.)	Enhanced Immune Responses Against Japanese Encephalitis Virus Infection Using Japanese Encephalitis Live-Attenuated Virus Adjuvanted with Montanide GEL 01 ST in Mice.	Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) is one of the major causes of acute encephalitis in human and animal. To prevent JEV infection, an effective live-attenuated vaccine is needed. In the article, JEV attenuated strain, SCYA201201 of GI genotype, which was mixed with 10% concentrate GEL 01 ST adjuvant (Montanide™ GEL 01 ST), was selected for a vaccine candidate and its immunogenicity was evaluated in mice. Our results showed that JEV mixed with GEL 01 ST elicited production of both IgG1 and IgG2a antibodies, and enhanced virus-specific crossprotective intergenotypic response in mice. Proliferation of splenocytes was observed in all immunized groups and a relatively higher proliferation activity was detected in JEV mixed with GEL 01 ST group (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314706	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314706	vaccine
Virulence	A predicted 	Pathogens enhance their survival during infections by manipulating host defenses. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314675	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314675	vaccine
Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics	Does structurally-mature dengue virion matter in vaccine preparation in post-Dengvaxia era?	The unexpectedly low vaccine efficacy of Dengvaxia®, developed by Sanofi Pasteur, and a higher risk of severe diseases after vaccination among dengue naïve children or children younger than 6 years old, have cast skepticism about the safety of dengue vaccination resulting in the suspension of school-based immunization programs in the Philippines. The absence of immune correlates of protection from dengue virus (DENV) infection hampers the development of other potential DENV vaccines. While tetravalent live-attenuated tetravalent vaccines (LATVs), which mimic natural infection by inducing both cellular and humoral immune responses, are still currently favored, developing a vaccine that provides a balanced immunity to all four DENV serotypes remains a challenge. With the recently advanced understanding of virion structure and B cell immune responses from naturally infected DENV patients, two points of view in developing a next-generation dengue vaccine emerged: one is to induce potent, type-specific neutralizing antibodies (NtAbs) recognizing quaternary structure-dependent epitopes by having four components of vaccine strains replicate equivalently; the other is to induce protective and broadly NtAbs against the four serotypes of DENV with a universal vaccine. This article reviews the studies related to these issues and the current knowledge gap that needs to be filled in.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314657	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314657	vaccine
Archivos de cardiologia de Mexico	Evaluation of the effect of hospitalization on mortality in patients with heart failure followed in primary care.	Los hallazgos indican que las hospitalizaciones se asocian con un aumento significativo de la mortalidad en pacientes diagnosticados recientemente con IC. Es importante reforzar la necesidad de prevenir la IC descompensada aguda y las estrategias para mejorar los resultados posteriores al alta.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Mexico	31314009	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314009	vaccine
Journal of public health management and practice : JPHMP	Local Health Department Interest in Implementation of a Jail-Based Human Papillomavirus Vaccination Program in Kansas, Iowa, Missouri, and Nebraska.	Nearly half of LHDs in the region expressed interest in partnering with local entities to meet HPV vaccination needs of high-risk groups. Research on cross-sectoral partnerships and what these collaborations look like in practice is needed for public health impact.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313718	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313718	vaccine
MMW Fortschritte der Medizin	[Vaccination of the immunocompromised patient].	 	2019	ger	Review	Germany	31313172	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313172	vaccine
International journal of clinical pharmacy	Signal detection of human papillomavirus vaccines using the Korea Adverse Events Reporting System database, between 2005 and 2016.	Background Adverse events (AEs) not listed on drug labels have recently been reported in young girls vaccinated against HPV, but signal detection related to the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine has never been conducted in South Korea using the Korea Adverse Event Reporting System database of Korea Institute of Drug Safety & Risk Management at Ministry of Food and Drug Safety. Objective To analyze signals associated with HPV vaccines using the Korean spontaneous AEs reporting system and data-mining methods and compare the results to current vaccine label information in South Korea and the United States of America, United Kingdom, European Union, and Japan to detect signals not currently listed on the labels. Setting We evaluated the Korea Institute of Drug Safety & Risk Management database from January 2005 to December 2016. After pre-screening the data, the adjusted total numbers of HPV-related AE reports and AEs were 2566 and 4748 and those of all other vaccine-related AE reports and AEs were 21,878 and 120,688, respectively. Methods Three data mining algorithms (proportional reporting ratio, reporting odds ratio and information component) were used to assess AEs. A signal was defined when the criteria for all three indicators were satisfied. The detected signals were compared to the label information of HPV vaccines from South Korea, the United States of America, United Kingdom, European Union, and Japan. Main outcome measure Signals of AE after HPV vaccination, which met all three data mining indices. Results In this study, we found a total 97 signals of AE after HPV vaccination. Of these, 78 AEs were already present on the HPV vaccine labels of South Korea and the following 19 AEs were not listed: neuralgia, tremor, neuritis, depersonalization, axillary pain, personality disorder, increased salivation, peptic ulcer, circulatory failure, hypotension, peripheral ischemia, cerebral hemorrhage, micturition disorder, facial edema, ovarian cyst, weight increase, pain anxiety, oral edema, and back pain. Moreover, AE information on the current HPV vaccine labels of South Korea, the United States of America, United Kingdom, European Union, and Japan was inconsistent. When comparing the 19 AE signals that were not listed on the drug label in South Korea with the labels from the other countries, neuritis, axillary pain, cerebral hemorrhage, facial edema, pain anxiety, and back pain appreared on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration HPV vaccine labels but not on the United Kingdom labels, and hypotension was listed only on labels in the European Union and Japan. Conclusions South Korea should develop a system for proactively updating HPV labels. These results also suggest potential research directions such as vaccination label expansion, pharmacovigilance studies, and identification of causality in AEs associated with HPV vaccination.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313003	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313003	vaccine
EClinicalMedicine	Therapeutic Vaccination Refocuses T-cell Responses Towards Conserved Regions of HIV-1 in Early Treated Individuals (BCN 01 study).	Evidence Before this Study: T cells play an important role in the control of HIV infection and may be particularly useful for HIV-1 cure by killing cells with reactivated HIV-1. Evidence is emerging that not all T-cell responses are protective and mainly only those targeting conserved regions of HIV-1 proteins are effective, but typically immunologically subdominant, while those recognizing hypervariable, easy-to-escape immunodominant 'decoys' do not control viremia and do not protect from a loss of CD4 T cells. We pioneered a vaccine strategy focusing T-cell responses on the most conserved regions of the HIV-1 proteome using an immunogen designated HIVconsv. T cells elicited by the HIVconsv vaccines in HIV-uninfected UK and Kenyan adults inhibited in vitro replication of HIV-1 isolates from 4 major global clades A, B, C and D.Added Value of this Study: The present study demonstrated the concept that epitopes subdominant in natural infection, when taken out of the context of the whole HIV-1 proteome and presented to the immune system by a potent simian adenovirus prime-poxvirus MVA boost regimen, can induce strong responses in patients on antiretroviral treatment and efficiently refocus HIV-1-specific T-cells to the protective epitopes delivered by the vaccine.Implications of all the Available Evidence: Nearly all HIV-1 vaccine strategies currently emphasize induction of broadly neutralizing Abs. The HIVconsv vaccine is one of a very few approaches focussing exclusively on elicitation of T cells and, therefore, can complement antibody induction for better prevention and cure. Given the cross-clade reach on the HIVconsv immunogen design, if efficient, the HIVconsv vaccines could be deployed globally. Effective vaccines will likely be a necessary component in combination with other available preventive measures for halting the HIV-1/AIDS epidemic.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312806	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312806	vaccine
Journal of preventive medicine and hygiene	Do HCWs adequately know about meningitis and 4CMenB vaccine and recommend its use to parents? A cross sectional analysis in Campania Region, Italy.	Invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) is a severe disease caused by various Neisseria meningitidis serogroups that represents a serious public health problem worldwide. In Italy, serogroups B and C are the major causes of IMD. On 14 January 2013, the European Medicines Agency authorized the use of the first vaccine available to protect against meningococcal serogroup B (4CMenB). The aim of this study was to assess the IMD epidemiology knowledge and 4CMenB vaccine attitudes of healthcare workers (HCWs) with regard to recommending this vaccine for use, vaccine practices and infectious disease control in the Campania region in Italy. A cross-sectional study was conducted among 293 HCWs (49.5% physicians and 46.4% nurses)interviewed using a self-administered questionnaire. The majority of the HCWs had sufficient knowledge about the disease incidence and lethality, but they were less informed about the higher risk age categories and the serogroups most frequently involved. Additionally, their knowledge about the vaccine was poor with regard to the targeted categories and side effects. Approximately30.0% of the HCWs reported incidences of fever and pain and swelling at the injection site. Moreover,32.8% of the HCWs knew that the risk of developing adverse reactions increases when the 4CMenB vaccine is co-administered with other vaccines. Overall, all of the HCWs were convinced that vaccinations are an important instrument for preventing infectious diseases, and they were aware of their central role in promoting the 4CmenB vaccination and their need to be better informed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31312744	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312744	vaccine
Open forum infectious diseases	Estimation of the Incidence of Guillain-Barré Syndrome During Pregnancy in the United States.	Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) is an adverse event of interest after vaccination, yet few data are available for background rates during pregnancy. We confirmed 2 cases of incident GBS and estimated an incidence of 2.8 confirmed GBS cases per million person-years (95% confidence interval, 0.5-9.3), indicating rare occurrence. Our findings will help inform safety assessments of Zika vaccines in pregnant populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312665	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312665	vaccine
NPJ vaccines	Age-associated changes in the impact of sex steroids on influenza vaccine responses in males and females.	Vaccine-induced immunity declines with age, which may differ between males and females. Using human sera collected before and 21 days after receipt of the monovalent A/Cal/09 H1N1 vaccine, we evaluated cytokine and antibody responses in adult (18-45 years) and aged (65+ years) individuals. After vaccination, adult females developed greater IL-6 and antibody responses than either adult males or aged females, with female antibody responses being positively associated with concentrations of estradiol. To test whether protection against influenza virus challenge was greater in females than males, we primed and boosted adult (8-10 weeks) and aged (68-70 weeks) male and female mice with an inactivated A/Cal/09 H1N1 vaccine or no vaccine and challenged with a drift variant A/Cal/09 virus. As compared with unvaccinated mice, vaccinated adult, but not aged, mice experienced less morbidity and better pulmonary viral clearance following challenge, regardless of sex. Vaccinated adult female mice developed antibody responses that were of greater quantity and quality and more protective than vaccinated adult males. Sex differences in vaccine efficacy diminished with age in mice. To determine the role of sex steroids in vaccine-induced immune responses, adult mice were gonadectomized and hormones (estradiol in females and testosterone in males) were replaced in subsets of animals before vaccination. Vaccine-induced antibody responses were increased in females by estradiol and decreased in males by testosterone. The benefit of elevated estradiol on antibody responses and protection against influenza in females is diminished with age in both mice and humans.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312529	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312529	vaccine
NPJ vaccines	Repeated vaccination against matched H3N2 influenza virus gives less protection than single vaccination in ferrets.	Epidemiological studies suggest that humans who receive repeated annual immunization with influenza vaccine are less well protected against influenza than those who receive vaccine in the current season only. To better understand potential mechanisms underlying these observations, we vaccinated influenza-naive ferrets either twice, 10 months apart (repeated vaccination group; RV), or once (current season only group; CS), using a prime-boost regimen, and then challenged the ferrets with A/Hong Kong/4801/2014(H3N2). Ferrets that received either vaccine regimen were protected against influenza disease and infection relative to naive unvaccinated ferrets, but the RV group shed more virus, especially at the peak of virus shedding 2 days post infection (	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312528	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312528	vaccine
NPJ vaccines	Outer membrane protein complex as a carrier for malaria transmission blocking antigen Pfs230.	Malaria transmission blocking vaccines (TBV) target the mosquito stage of parasite development by passive immunization of mosquitoes feeding on a vaccinated human. Through uptake of vaccine-induced antibodies in a blood meal, mosquito infection is halted and hence transmission to another human host is blocked. Pfs230 is a gametocyte and gamete surface antigen currently under clinical evaluation as a TBV candidate. We have previously shown that chemical conjugation of poorly immunogenic TBV antigens to Exoprotein A (EPA) can enhance their immunogenicity. Here, we assessed Outer Membrane Protein Complex (OMPC), a membrane vesicle derived from 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312527	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312527	vaccine
Clinical & translational immunology	Harnessing host-virus evolution in antiviral therapy and immunotherapy.	Pathogen resistance and development costs are major challenges in current approaches to antiviral therapy. The high error rate of RNA synthesis and reverse-transcription confers genome plasticity, enabling the remarkable adaptability of RNA viruses to antiviral intervention. However, this property is coupled to fundamental constraints including limits on the size of information available to manipulate complex hosts into supporting viral replication. Accordingly, RNA viruses employ various means to extract maximum utility from their informationally limited genomes that, correspondingly, may be leveraged for effective host-oriented therapies. Host-oriented approaches are becoming increasingly feasible because of increased availability of bioactive compounds and recent advances in immunotherapy and precision medicine, particularly genome editing, targeted delivery methods and RNAi. In turn, one driving force behind these innovations is the increasingly detailed understanding of evolutionarily diverse host-virus interactions, which is the key concern of an emerging field, neo-virology. This review examines biotechnological solutions to disease and other sustainability issues of our time that leverage the properties of RNA and DNA viruses as developed through co-evolution with their hosts.	2019	eng	Review	Australia	31312450	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312450	vaccine
The Pan African medical journal	[Meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 7a in an infant vaccinated with two doses of 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine: a case study].	Pneumococcal meningitis is a global scourge. It is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. In Morocco, 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) was introduced into the National Immunization Program in October 2010 according to the immunization schedule 2 + 1 and replaced by PCV10 in July 2012, according to the same schedule. Despite the use of the PCV13, which is essential in the fight against pneumococcal disease, the emergence of new non-vaccine serotypes always results in meningitis in children, causing serious sequelae. We report the case of an infant vaccinated with two doses of PCV13 with meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 7a. The peculiarity of this case study lies in pneumococcal meningitis due to Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 7a not included in the PCV13 in an infant immunized by 2 doses of PCV13. We here insist on the need and the importance of an observatory for pneumococcal meningitis and of a wide epidemiological study in order to determine the serotypes in Morocco after the introduction of PCV13 and then of PCV10.	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31312315	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312315	vaccine
The Pan African medical journal	Rotavirus-associated acute diarrhea outbreak in West Shewa Zone of Oromia Regional State, Ethiopia, 2017.	Diarrheal outbreak which occurred in West-Shewa zone of Ethiopia was associated with rotavirus and relatively more affected districts with low vaccination coverage. Routine rotavirus vaccination quality and coverage should be evaluated and the surveillance system needs to be strengthened to detect, prevent and control a similar outbreak.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312314	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312314	vaccine
Immunity & ageing : I & A	Effect of homeostatic T-cell proliferation in the vaccine responsiveness against influenza in elderly people.	Age-related homeostatic dysregulation involving the proliferation of CD4 and CD8 T-cell subsets, including Tregs, was related to a limited responsiveness to influenza vaccination and a higher inflammatory status in a cohort of elderly people.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312227	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312227	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	Recalling the Future: Immunological Memory Toward Unpredictable Influenza Viruses.	Persistent and durable immunological memory forms the basis of any successful vaccination protocol. Generation of pre-existing memory B cell and T cell pools is thus the key for maintaining protective immunity to seasonal, pandemic and avian influenza viruses. Long-lived antibody secreting cells (ASCs) are responsible for maintaining antibody levels in peripheral blood. Generated with CD4	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312199	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312199	vaccine
Bioinformation	Virtual screening of inhibitors against Envelope glycoprotein of Chikungunya Virus: a drug repositioning approach.	Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) a re-emerging mosquito-borne alpha virus causes significant distress which is further accentuated in the lack of specific therapeutics or a preventive vaccine, mandating accelerated research for anti-CHIKV therapeutics. In recent years, drug repositioning has gained recognition for the curative interventions for its cost and time efficacy. CHIKV envelope proteins are considered to be the promising targets for drug discovery because of their essential role in viral attachment and entry in the host cells. In the current study, we propose structure-based virtual screening of drug molecule on the crystal structure of mature Chikungunya envelope protein (PDB 3N41) using a library of FDA approved drug molecules. Several cephalosporin drugs docked successfully within two binding sites prepared at E1-E2 interface of CHIKV envelop protein complex with significantly low binding energies. Cefmenoxime, ceforanide, cefotetan, cefonicid sodium and cefpiramide were identified as top leads with a cumulative score of -67.67, -64.90, -63.78, -61.99, and - 61.77, forming electrostatic, hydrogen and hydrophobic bonds within both the binding sites. These shortlisted leads could be potential inhibitors of E1-E2 hetero dimer in CHIKV, hence might disrupt the integrity of envelope glycoprotein leading to loss of its ability to form mature viral particles and gain entry into the host.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Singapore	31312082	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312082	vaccine
mBio	Progress in Elucidating Potential Markers and Mechanisms of Rapid Protection Conferred by the VSV-Vectored Ebola Virus Vaccine.	Research progress over the past 20 years has yielded several experimental Ebola virus (EBOV) vaccine candidates, which were shown to be effective in nonhuman primates when given 28 days before a lethal challenge. Of these, the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV)-vectored vaccine against EBOV (VSV-EBOV) is unique at being able to induce rapid protection, with 100% survival achieved as soon as 7 days after EBOV challenge. In a recent 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311887	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311887	vaccine
Preventive veterinary medicine	Exploring the importance of mixed autogenous vaccines as a potential determinant of lung consolidation in lambs using Bayesian networks.	Bayesian networks are used to evaluate the effectiveness of mixed autogenous vaccines in fattening lambs to prevent the ovine respiratory syndrome. An experiment was performed with 460 fattening lambs, which were clustered into four groups according to the kind of vaccine received (Pasteurella spp., Mycoplasma spp., Mixed Mycoplasma-Pasteurella or placebo). After slaughtering, lungs were collected, and macroscopic and microscopic studies were performed. A microbiological study was carried out to evaluate the presence of Mycoplasma spp. and Pasteurellaceae by conventional culture and identification by nested polymerase chain reaction. To the best of the authors' knowledge, Bayesian networks have not been used to evaluate the effect of vaccines on the absence/presence of lung consolidation. Our results revealed that the use of mixed autogenous vaccines can decrease lung consolidation from 15.75% (12.42-19.08) to 9.24% (6.59-11.89). Therefore, the use of these autogenous vaccines in farms could be considered an effective control tool against ovine respiratory syndrome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31311630	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311630	vaccine
Microbiome	The association between pneumococcal vaccination, ethnicity, and the nasopharyngeal microbiota of children in Fiji.	Associations between PCV7 and nasopharyngeal microbiota differed within each ethnic group. This study highlights the influence that ethnicity and URTIs have on nasopharyngeal microbiota.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311598	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311598	vaccine
Malaria journal	Changing pattern of the genetic diversities of Plasmodium falciparum merozoite surface protein-1 and merozoite surface protein-2 in Myanmar isolates.	Despite the recent remarkable decline of malaria cases, the Myanmar P. falciparum population still remains of sufficient size to allow the generation and maintenance of genetic diversity. The high level of genetic diversity of pfmsp-1 and pfmsp-2 in the global P. falciparum population emphasizes the necessity for continuous monitoring of the genetic diversity of the genes for better understanding of the genetic make-up and evolutionary aspect of the genes in the global P. falciparum population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311565	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311565	vaccine
Malaria journal	Temporal changes in Plasmodium falciparum reticulocyte binding protein homolog 2b (PfRh2b) in Senegal and The Gambia.	PfRh2b deletion was found in the two countries with varying prevalence during the study period. However, these temporal and spatial variations could be an obstacle to the implementation of this protein as a potential vaccine candidate.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311552	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311552	vaccine
Cancers	Cancer Testis Antigens and Immunotherapy: Where Do We Stand in the Targeting of PRAME?	PRAME or PReferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma is a testis-selective cancer testis antigen (CTA) with restricted expression in somatic tissues and re-expression in various cancers. It is one of the most widely studied CTAs and has been associated with the outcome and risk of metastasis. Although little is known about its pathophysiological function, PRAME has gained interest as a candidate target for immunotherapy. This review provides an update on our knowledge on PRAME expression and function in healthy and malignant cells and the current immunotherapeutic strategies targeting PRAME with their specific challenges and opportunities. We also highlight some of the features that position PRAME as a unique cancer testis antigen to target.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31311081	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311081	vaccine
Virology	Neuraminidase expressing virus-like particle vaccine provides effective cross protection against influenza virus.	Neuraminidase is the second major surface antigen on influenza virus. We investigated the immunogenicity and cross protective efficacy of virus-like particle containing neuraminidase derived from 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza virus (N1 VLP) in comparison with inactivated split influenza vaccine. Immunization of mice with N1 VLP induced antibody responses specific for virus and cross-reactive neuraminidase inhibition activity whereas an inactivated split vaccine induced strain-specific hemagglutination inhibition activity. N1 VLP-immunized mice developed cross protective immunity against antigenically different influenza viruses, as determined by body weight changes, lung viral titers, infiltrating innate immune cells, and cytokines, and antibody secreting cells, and germinal center B cells. Also, N1 VLP-immune sera provided cross-protection in naïve mice. Immunity by N1 VLP vaccination was not compromised in Fc receptor γ-chain deficient mice. These results suggest that neuraminidase-presenting VLP can be developed as an effective cross-protective vaccine candidate along with current influenza vaccination.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310875	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310875	vaccine
Microbial pathogenesis	Effect of the oral administration of astragalus polysaccharides on jejunum mucosal immunity in chickens vaccinated against Newcastle disease.	Astragalus polysaccharides (APS) are a traditional Chinese medicine with a therapeutic effect by enhancing immune function; however, the underlying functional mechanism is still unclear. The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of oral administration of APS on jejunum mucosal immunity in chickens vaccinated against Newcastle disease (ND). One-day-old Hy-Line male chickens were divided into five groups of 20 chicks each: three APS groups, one vaccinated control (VC) group and one non-vaccinated negative control (NC) group. On d 10, the APS groups were orally administered 0.5 ml of APS at doses of 1 mg/mL (APS	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310831	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310831	vaccine
Antiviral research	Intraperitoneal injection with dengue virus type 1-infected K562 cells results in complete fatality among immunocompetent mice.	Dengue is one of the most important mosquito-borne viral diseases. Over half of the world's population is living in dengue endemic countries, where 100 million cases are estimated to occur annually. Although one dengue vaccine is currently available commercially, unfortunately its safety and efficacy has not been demonstrated for seronegative populations. Therefore, other vaccine candidates as well as antivirals are urgently required to control dengue diseases. To contribute to the development of preventative measures, in the present study we established an immunocompetent-mouse infection model using dengue virus type 1 Mochizuki strain. Following intraperitoneal injection with K562 cells infected with Mochizuki strain, all mice injected with ≥1 × 10	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310782	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310782	vaccine
Journal of cellular biochemistry	Molecular docking studies of chloroquine and its derivatives against P23	The arthropod-transmitted chikungunya virus has emerged as an epidemic menace that causes debilitating polyarthritis. With this life-threatening impact on humans, the possible treatment requires to cure the viral infectivity. But, devoid of any vaccine against the chikungunya virus (CHIKV), there is a need to develop a novel chemotherapeutic strategy to treat this noxious infection. CHIKV carries highly compact P23	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310373	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310373	vaccine
The Journal of general virology	Rift Valley fever: biology and epidemiology.	Rift Valley fever (RVF) is a mosquito-borne viral zoonosis that was first discovered in Kenya in 1930 and is now endemic throughout multiple African countries and the Arabian Peninsula. RVF virus primarily infects domestic livestock (sheep, goats, cattle) causing high rates of neonatal mortality and abortion, with human infection resulting in a wide variety of clinical outcomes, ranging from self-limiting febrile illness to life-threatening haemorrhagic diatheses, and miscarriage in pregnant women. Since its discovery, RVF has caused many outbreaks in Africa and the Arabian Peninsula with major impacts on human and animal health. However, options for the control of RVF outbreaks are limited by the lack of licensed human vaccines or therapeutics. For this reason, RVF is prioritized by the World Health Organization for urgent research and development of countermeasures for the prevention and control of future outbreaks. In this review, we highlight the current understanding of RVF, including its epidemiology, pathogenesis, clinical manifestations and status of vaccine development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310198	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310198	vaccine
International journal of fertility & sterility	Rubella Immunity in Pregnant Iranian Women: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	Rubella infection within the first trimester of pregnancy may lead to adverse pregnancy outcomes. The present study was conducted to evaluate the immunity against rubella among the pregnant Iranian women. The steps of meta-analyses were conducted based on the MOOSE protocol and results were reported according to the PRISMA guideline. To review the associated English and Persian literature, a comprehensive search was conducted among the international databases such as Scopus, PubMed/Medline, Science Direct, Embase, Cochrane library, Web of Science and Google Scholar search engine as well as Iranian databases, until April 1, 2018 using the following medical subject headings (MeSH) keywords: 'Pregnant', 'Gestational', 'Prenatal care', 'Complications of pregnancy', 'Pregnancy', 'Rubella infection', 'Prevalence, 'Epidemiology', 'Immunity', 'Immunization', 'Antibody', 'Immunogenicity' and 'Iran'. Cochran's Q test and I2 index were used to investigate heterogeneity in the studies. Random effects model was used to estimate the rate of rubella immunity. The obtained data were analyzed using Comprehensive Meta-Analysis Ver.2. Fifteen studies constituting 7,601 pregnant Iranian women met the inclusion criteria. The overall pooled rubella immunity rate was 90.1% [95% confidence interval (CI): 86.1-93.1]. Rubella immunity rates were respectively 88.6% (95% CI: 80.6-93.6) and 91.5% (95% CI: 88.1-93.9) before and after national vaccine program. Rubella immunity rates were 91.4% (95% CI: 87.8-94.0) and 87.2% (95% CI: 74.3-94.1) based on the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and haemagglutination-inhibition (HAI) methods, respectively. There was no significant association between rubella immunity and vaccination program (P=0.398), diagnostic methods (P=0.355), geographic regions (P=0.286), quality of the studies (P=0.751), occupation (P=0.639), residence (P=0.801), and year of the studies (P=0.164), but it was significantly associated with age (P<0.001). Despite high rubella immunity among the pregnant Iranian women, anti-rubella antibody screening is recommended for all women of childbearing age.	2019	eng	Systematic Review	Iran	31310069	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310069	vaccine
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	On Measles, Vaccination, Social Media Activism and How to Win Back Our Role as our Patients' Best Advocates.	Once declared transmission free in the U.S less than twenty years ago, Measles and other vaccine-preventable diseases have made a spectacular comeback. Waning public support for childhood immunization and subsequent recent outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases have been spawned by several technological and social factors, including the erosion of the provider-patient relationship, the emergence of internet-based patient resources and social media sites, and the rise of online healthcare activism. New tools are needed for physicians and health care providers to reverse this trend and regain our role as our patient's best advocates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309980	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309980	vaccine
Public health nursing (Boston, Mass.)	Addressing the resurgence of measles and vaccine refusal in the United States through public health nursing.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31309622	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309622	vaccine
Pediatric dermatology	Disseminated Bacille Calmette-Guérin infection in a patient with severe combined immunodeficiency caused by JAK3 gene mutation.	Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG), a live attenuated vaccine prepared using Mycobacterium bovis, can prevent tuberculosis in children and is routinely administered to infants in China and many other countries. A serious complication following vaccination is disseminated BCG infection. The risk is greatly increased in patients with severe combined immunodeficiency disease (SCID), a syndrome characterized by deficiency of both humoral and cellular immunity. We report a case of disseminated BCG infection in an infant with SCID caused by two novel janus kinase 3 (JAK3) gene mutations.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31309596	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309596	vaccine
Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J.)	Vaccination to Protect Against Proteus mirabilis Challenge Utilizing the Ascending Model of Urinary Tract Infection.	Proteus mirabilis is a major cause of complicated urinary tract infections (UTIs). P. mirabilis' urease activity hydrolyzes urea and raises urine pH levels, which can catalyze bladder and kidney stone formation. This urolithiasis leads to harder-to-treat infections, possible urinary blockage, and subsequent septicemia. Development of a mucosal vaccine against P. mirabilis urinary tract infections is critical to protect against this potentially deadly infection process. Here, we describe the methodology necessary to produce a vaccine candidate conjugated to cholera toxin, administer the vaccine via the intranasal route, and test efficacy in a murine transurethral P. mirabilis infection model.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309507	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309507	vaccine
Mediterranean journal of hematology and infectious diseases	Sickle Cell Disease and Infections in High- and Low-Income Countries.	Infections, especially pneumococcal septicemia, meningitis, and 	2019	eng	Review	Italy	31308918	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308918	vaccine
Infection and drug resistance	Recombinant human papillomavirus nonavalent vaccine in the prevention of cancers caused by human papillomavirus.	Human papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 and 18 cause 70% of cervical cancer cases globally. The nonavalent HPV vaccine (9vHPV) was licensed in 2014 and protects against the next five most common cancer-causing HPV types (HPV 31/33/45/52/58) after HPV 16/18. Phase III clinical studies have demonstrated high vaccine efficacy (>90%) against cervical, vulvar, and vaginal precancers caused by these additional types, and have shown comparable immunogenicity to the shared genotypes to quadrivalent HPV vaccine (4vHPV). Vaccine efficacy and antibody responses for 9vHPV are found to persist for at least five years while longer-term observational studies are ongoing to monitor long-term vaccine effectiveness. The implementation of 9vHPV has the potential to prevent up to 93% of cervical cancer cases, as well as a significant proportion of other HPV-related anogenital cancers. This review article summarizes the current evidence for 9vHPV in terms of vaccine efficacy against HPV infection and related anogenital precancers, safety, and immunogenicity, as well as discussing the potential impact of this vaccine on the cervical cancer burden globally.	2019	eng	Review	New Zealand	31308715	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308715	vaccine
International journal of nanomedicine	Oxidized carbon nanoparticles as an effective protein antigen delivery system targeting the cell-mediated immune response.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308663	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308663	vaccine
Drug design, development and therapy	Immune-related adverse events following administration of anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein-4 drugs: a comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis.	None	2019	eng	Review	New Zealand	31308633	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308633	vaccine
Nature medicine	Metabolic perturbations and cellular stress underpin susceptibility to symptomatic live-attenuated yellow fever infection.	Flaviviral infections result in a wide spectrum of clinical outcomes, ranging from asymptomatic infection to severe disease. Although the correlates of severe disease have been explored	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308506	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308506	vaccine
Arerugi = [Allergy]	[MUCOSAL MULTI-ECOSYSTEM FOR THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF MUCOSAL DISORDERS].	 	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308333	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308333	vaccine
The Journal of rheumatology	Suboptimal immunization coverage among Canadian rheumatology patients in routine clinical care.	There is suboptimal immunization coverage among ambulatory rheumatology patients. An important role for patient and physician education is highlighted from our study, especially as physician recommendation of vaccination was strongly predictive of vaccine uptake.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31308211	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308211	vaccine
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)	Cutting Edge: Bacillus Calmette-Guérin-Induced T Cells Shape 	Growing evidence suggests the outcome of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308091	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308091	vaccine
Infection and immunity	A Cross-reactive Protein Vaccine Combined with PCV-13 Prevents 	Acute otitis media is one of the most common childhood infections worldwide. Currently licensed vaccines against the common otopathogen, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308088	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308088	vaccine
Infection and immunity	Antibody-dependent IFN-γ-independent sterilizing immunity, induced by a subunit malaria vaccine.	Development of effective malaria vaccines is hampered by incomplete understanding of the immunological correlates of protective immunity. Recently, the moderate clinical efficacy of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308085	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308085	vaccine
Infection and immunity	Bordetella Colonization Factor A (BcfA) elicits protective immunity against 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308083	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308083	vaccine
European urology oncology	How Should I Manage a Patient with Tumor Recurrence Despite Adequate Bacille Calmette-Guérin?	Intravesical immunotherapy with bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine is the main treatment for non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC), with proven effects on reducing recurrence, progression, and death from NMIBC. However, it is not effective in all patients, and recurrence after adequate BCG therapy can frequently lead to progression to more life-threatening disease. This point-counterpoint review considers how to treat a healthy 60-yr-old patient with T1 high-grade NMIBC fitting the new definition of BCG-unresponsive disease, that is, persistent high-grade disease at 6-12mo, despite an adequate course of induction and maintenance with BCG. PATIENT SUMMARY: When T1 high-grade non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer is persistent or recurs shortly after a full course of bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) plus maintenance, further BCG is not likely to work; this meets the new definition of a "BCG unresponsive" disease. For this situation, the safest (curative) option is removal of the bladder. If that is not an accepted alternative, then a clinical trial or combination intravesical chemotherapy or hyperchemotherapy may be another option.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307960	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307960	vaccine
Vaccine	Programmatic Preparations and challenges for OCV introduction in India.	Cholera mainly affects the marginalized with inequitable access to care, potable water and improved sanitation. An estimated 411 million people in India are at risk from cholera, with 675,188 cases and 20,256 deaths occurring annually. Given the global elimination plan for cholera by 2030, a multi-stakeholder strategy is required. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) Working Group on Cholera met in 2016 to review the evidence for cholera burden in India and successful oral cholera vaccine (OCV) implementation in other countries. Based on NTAGI's recommendations, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will implement cholera control measures and decide on OCV's addition to India's Universal Immunization Programme (UIP). Key steps for OCV introduction will include choosing the vaccine formulation, developing vaccine delivery strategy, ensuring sufficient resources, engaging OCV manufacturers to ensure a sustainable supply, and developing a post-introduction evaluation strategy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307875	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307875	vaccine
Vaccine	Models to predict the public health impact of vaccine resistance: A systematic review.	Pathogen evolution is a potential threat to the long-term benefits provided by public health vaccination campaigns. Mathematical modeling can be a powerful tool to examine the forces responsible for the development of vaccine resistance and to predict its public health implications. We conducted a systematic review of existing literature to understand the construction and application of vaccine resistance models. We identified 26 studies that modeled the public health impact of vaccine resistance for 12 different pathogens. Most models predicted that vaccines would reduce overall disease burden in spite of evolution of vaccine resistance. Relatively few pathogens and populations for which vaccine resistance may be problematic were covered in the reviewed studies, with low- and middle-income countries particularly under-represented. We discuss the key components of model design, as well as patterns of model predictions.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31307874	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307874	vaccine
Vaccine	Nephrotic syndrome following four-component meningococcal B vaccination: Epidemiologic investigation of a surveillance signal.	Active safety surveillance identified an unexpected increase in NS incidence following 4CMenB vaccination. Further epidemiological investigation identified four vaccinated cases in total over a 12 month period of follow up. The greater risk in vaccinees had wide confidence intervals with he lower limit including or just above the nul value, an observation with no or marginal statistical significance. The temporal association with vaccination may be explained by other causes and/or chance clustering of a rare event unrelated to vaccination. To confirm or refute a potential link to vaccination, surveillance in other jurisdictions administering 4CMenB to children 1-9-years-old is needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307873	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307873	vaccine
Revista espanola de geriatria y gerontologia	[Economic evaluation of pneumococcal vaccination in adults aged over 65 years in Castilla y León (SPAIN)].	The evaluation of the different incremental costs (QALY,euros) in the years of follow-up, the pneumococcus vaccination program in people over 65 in Castilla y León is cost-effective.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31307781	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307781	vaccine
Veterinary immunology and immunopathology	Felis catus papillomavirus type 2 virus-like particle vaccine is safe and immunogenic but does not reduce FcaPV-2 viral loads in adult cats.	Felis catus papillomavirus type 2 (FcaPV-2) commonly infects the skin of domestic cats and has been associated with the development of skin cancer. In the present study, a FcaPV-2 virus-like particle (VLP) vaccine was produced and assessed for vaccine safety, immunogenicity, and impact on FcaPV-2 viral load. This is the first report of the use of a papillomavirus VLP vaccine in domestic cats. The FcaPV-2 VLP vaccine was given to ten adult cats that were naturally infected with FcaPV-2, and a further ten naturally infected cats were sham vaccinated as a control group. The rationale for vaccinating cats already infected with the virus was to induce neutralizing antibody titers that could prevent reinfection of new areas of skin and reduce the overall viral load, as has been demonstrated in other species. Reducing the overall FcaPV-2 viral load could reduce the risk for subsequent PV-associated cancer. The vaccine in this study was well-tolerated, as none of the cats developed any signs of local reaction or systemic illness. In the treatment group, the geometric mean anti-papillomavirus endpoint antibody titers increased significantly following vaccination from 606 (95% CI 192-1913) to 4223 (2023-8814), a 7.0-fold increase, although the individual antibody response varied depending on the level of pre-existing antibodies. Despite the immunogenicity of the vaccine, there was no significant change in FcaPV-2 viral load in the treatment group compared to the control group, over the 24 week follow-up period. A possible reason is that FcaPV-2 was already widespread in the basal skin layer of these adult cats and so preventing further cells from becoming infected had no impact on the overall viral load. Therefore, these results do not support the use of a FcaPV-2 VLP vaccine to reduce the risk for PV-associated cancer in cats in which FcaPV-2 infection is already well established. However, these results justify future studies in which the vaccine is administered to younger cats prior to FcaPV-2 infection becoming fully established.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307673	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307673	vaccine
Veterinary immunology and immunopathology	Effect of progesterone on the vaccination and immune response against Chlamydia abortus in sheep.	Chlamydia abortus produces ovine enzootic abortion (OEA). Symptoms are not observed until the organism colonises the placenta, eventually causing abortion. Infected animals become carriers and will shed the organism in the following oestruses. This process suggests that sex hormones might play an important role in the physiopathology of OEA, affecting the success of chlamydial clearance and also jeopardising the effectiveness of vaccination. However, the mechanisms through which sex hormones are involved in chlamydial pathogenicity remain unclear. The aim of this study, therefore, was to determine the effect of progesterone on the immune response against C. abortus and on the protection conferred by an experimental inactivated vaccine in sheep. Eighteen sheep were ovariectomised and divided into four groups: vaccinated and progesterone-treated (V-PG), vaccinated and non-treated (V-NT), non-vaccinated and non-treated (NV-NT) and non-vaccinated and progesterone-treated sheep (NV-PG). Animals from both PG groups were treated with commercial medroxyprogesterone acetate impregnated intravaginal sponges before and during the vaccination (V-PG) or just before challenge (NV-PG). The animals from both V groups were subcutaneously immunised with an experimental inactivated vaccine, which was seen to confer high protection in previous studies. All sheep were challenged intratracheally with C. abortus strain AB7 and were sacrificed on day 8 post-infection. Morbidity was measured as the variation in rectal temperature and samples of sera were collected for antibody and cytokine (IFN-γ and IL-10) analysis by commercial ELISA. In addition, lung and lymph node samples were collected for chlamydial detection by qPCR and for histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses. Sheep from the V-PG group showed less severe or no lesions and lower morbidity than the other groups. They also had the highest abundance of regulatory T-cells. The sheep from V-NT also manifested high antibody levels against C. abortus and less severe lesions than those observed in non-vaccinated sheep, which showed high morbidity, low antibody levels and severe lesions, especially in NV-NT. These results confirm the effectiveness of the experimental vaccine employed and suggest that progesterone could enhance the effect.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307668	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307668	vaccine
Israel journal of health policy research	Vaccination uptake and income inequalities within a mass vaccination campaign.	Public health professionals promoting vaccine programs need to make specially-designed efforts both in localities with high average income and in localities with a high level of income diversity/inequality. Such practice will better utilize funds, resources, and manpower dedicated to increasing vaccination uptake across varying populations and communities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307532	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307532	vaccine
BMC veterinary research	Investigation of chronic and persistent classical swine fever infections under field conditions and their impact on vaccine efficacy.	Circulation of chronic and persistent CSF infections was demonstrated in field conditions under a vaccination programme. Persistent infection was predominant. Here, we provide evidence that, in field conditions, subclinical infections are not detected by clinical diagnosis and, despite being infected with CSFV, the animals are vaccinated, rather than diagnosed and eliminated. These animals are refractory to vaccination, likely due to the SIE phenomenon. Improvement of vaccination strategies and diagnosis of subclinical forms of CSF is imperative for CSF eradication.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307464	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307464	vaccine
BMC medical research methodology	"Spatial heterogeneity of environmental risk in randomized prevention trials: consequences and modeling".	The dataset used for the application example was extracted from Vaccine Trial #NCT02334462 ( ClinicalTrials.gov registry).	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307393	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307393	vaccine
Asia-Pacific journal of public health	Prevalence and Persistence of Maternal Dengue Neutralizing Antibodies in Infants From Central and Southern Thailand: A Retrospective Cohort Study.	Understanding maternal dengue virus (DENV) neutralizing antibody kinetics in infants remains timely to develop a safe and effective childhood immunization. This retrospective study evaluated the prevalence and persistence of maternal antibody titers against DENV serotypes 1 to 4 in 139 Thai infants at 2, 6, and 7 months of age, using serum samples collected in a vaccination trial ( http://clinicaltrials.gov ; NCT00197275). Neutralizing antibodies against all 4 DENV serotypes were detected in 87.8% and 22.9% of infants at 2 and 7 months, respectively. At 2 months, DENV-4 neutralizing antibody geometric mean titers were notably lower (80) compared with DENV-1 to DENV-3 (277-471). Our results corroborate previous findings that DENV-1 to DENV-4 maternal antibodies persist at 7 months despite titers decrease from 2 months onwards. As persisting maternal antibodies may inhibit immune responses in DENV-vaccinated infants, a comprehensive understanding of DENV antibody kinetics is required in the perspective of vaccine development for infants.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31307216	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307216	vaccine
Medicine	Erratum: Is rotavirus still a major cause for diarrheal illness in hospitalized pediatric patients after rotavirus vaccine introduction in the Saudi national immunization program?: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006574.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305679	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305679	vaccine
Infection and immunity	Correction for Fletcher et al., "Vaccine Potential of the Neisseria meningitidis 2086 Lipoprotein".	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1128/IAI.72.4.2088-2100.2004.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305626	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305626	vaccine
Virology	High-throughput screening of active compounds against human respiratory syncytial virus.	Human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is one of the predominant pathogens causing lower respiratory tract infection in infants and young children worldwide, whereas there is so far no vaccine or drug against RSV infection for clinical use. In this work, we developed and validated a fluorescence-based high-throughput screening (HTS) assay to identify compounds active against RSV, using RSV-mGFP, a recombinant RSV encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). Thereafter, among 54,800 compounds used for our screen, we obtained 62 compounds active against RSV. Among these hits, azathioprine (AZA) and 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) were identified as RSV inhibitors with half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306912	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306912	vaccine
European journal of pharmaceutics and biopharmaceutics : official journal of Arbeitsgemeinschaft fur Pharmazeutische Verfahrenstechnik e.V	A spray freeze dried micropellet based formulation proof-of-concept for a yellow fever vaccine candidate.	The stability of live-attenuated viruses is very challenging due to thermal sensitivity; therefore, solid form is usually required (often freeze-dried products). Micropellet technology is a lyophilization technology that has the potential to provide greater flexibility in the presentation of a given vaccine particularly in multi-dose format or in combination of different vaccines. As a novel vaccine alternative process, this spray freeze-dried (SFD) micropellet technology was evaluated using as a model a yellow fever virus produced in Vero cells (vYF). Screening of excipients was performed in order to optimize physico-chemical properties of the micropellets. Sugar/polymer-based formulations induced high glass transition temperature (Tg), adequate breaking force and attrition resistance of the SFD micropellets. These mechanical parameters and their stability are of considerable importance for the storage, the transport but also the filling process of the SFD micropellets. By adding excipients required to best preserve virus infectivity, an optimal sugar/polymer-based formulation was selected to build micropellets containing vYF. Monodisperse and dried micropellets with a diameter of about 530 µm were obtained, exhibiting similar potency to conventional freeze-dried product in terms of vYF infectious titer when both solid forms were kept under refrigerated conditions (2-8°C). Comparable kinetics of degradation were observed for vYF formulated in micropellets or as conventional freeze-dried product during an accelerated stability study using incubations at 25°C and 37°C over several weeks. The results from this investigation demonstrate the ability to formulate live-attenuated viruses in micropellets. Pharmaceutical applications of this novel vaccine solid form are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306751	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306751	vaccine
Journal of hepatology	Anti-PD-1 Blockade with Nivolumab with and without Therapeutic Vaccination for Virally Suppressed Chronic Hepatitis B: A Pilot Study.	In virally suppressed HBeAg-negative patients, checkpoint blockade was well-tolerated and led to HBsAg decline in most patients and sustained HBsAg loss in one patient. Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (http://www.anzctr.org.au/) number: ACTRN12615001133527.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306680	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306680	vaccine
Journal of controlled release : official journal of the Controlled Release Society	The size and composition of polymeric nanocapsules dictate their interaction with macrophages and biodistribution in zebrafish.	Macrophages are pivotal cells of the innate immune system specialized in the phagocytosis of foreign elements. Nanoparticles intentionally designed to target macrophages and modulate their response are of especial interest in the case of chronic inflammatory diseases, cancer and for vaccine development. This work aimed to understand the role of size and shell composition of polymeric nanocapsules (NCs) in their interaction with macrophages, both in vitro and in vivo. A systematic study was performed using two different sizes of inulin and chitosan NCs, negatively and positively charged, respectively, small (≈ 70 nm) and medium (170-250 nm). The in vitro results showed that small NCs interacted more efficiently with macrophages than their larger counterparts. Inulin NCs were significantly less toxic than chitosan NCs. Finally, following in vivo administration (intravenous/intramuscular) to zebrafish, small NCs, regardless of their composition, disseminated considerably faster and further than their medium size counterparts. These results emphasize how small changes in the nanometric range can lead to a remarkably different interaction with the immune cells and biodistribution profile.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306677	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306677	vaccine
Chemistry (Weinheim an der Bergstrasse, Germany)	Isolation, purification, characterization and direct conjugation of the lipid A-free lipopolysaccharide of Vibrio cholerae O139.	The lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Vibrio cholerae O139, strain CIRS245, was isolated conventionally, and the lipid A was removed by mild acid hydrolysis (0.1 M NaOAc buffer containing 1% SDS, pH 4.2, 95°C, 8 h). The crude product was a complex mixture consisting mainly of constituent fragments of the O-specific polysaccharide-core (OSPc). The OSPc was only a minor component in the mixture. Two-stage purification of the crude OSPc by HPLC gave pure OSPc fragment of the LPS, as shown by NMR spectroscopy, analytical HPLC and ESI-MS. This material is the purest OSPc fragment of the LPS from Vibrio cholerae O139 reported to date. The purified OSPc was readily converted to the corresponding methyl squarate derivative and the latter was conjugated to BSA. The conjugate, when examined by ELISA, showed immunoreactivity with sera from patients in Bangladesh recovering from cholera caused by V. cholerae O139, but not O1.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31306528	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306528	vaccine
PLoS pathogens	Similarities and differences between native HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein trimers and stabilized soluble trimer mimetics.	The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer is located on the surface of the virus and is the target of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs). Recombinant native-like soluble Env trimer mimetics, such as SOSIP trimers, have taken a central role in HIV-1 vaccine research aimed at inducing bNAbs. We therefore performed a direct and thorough comparison of a full-length unmodified Env trimer containing the transmembrane domain and the cytoplasmic tail, with the sequence matched soluble SOSIP trimer, both based on an early Env sequence (AMC011) from an HIV+ individual that developed bNAbs. The structures of the full-length AMC011 trimer bound to either bNAb PGT145 or PGT151 were very similar to the structures of SOSIP trimers. Antigenically, the full-length and SOSIP trimers were comparable, but in contrast to the full-length trimer, the SOSIP trimer did not bind at all to non-neutralizing antibodies, most likely as a consequence of the intrinsic stabilization of the SOSIP trimer. Furthermore, the glycan composition of full-length and SOSIP trimers was similar overall, but the SOSIP trimer possessed slightly less complex and less extensively processed glycans, which may relate to the intrinsic stabilization as well as the absence of the membrane tether. These data provide insights into how to best use and improve membrane-associated full-length and soluble SOSIP HIV-1 Env trimers as immunogens.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306470	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306470	vaccine
PLoS pathogens	Alternative conformations of a major antigenic site on RSV F.	The respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) fusion (F) glycoprotein is a major target of neutralizing antibodies arising from natural infection, and antibodies that specifically bind to the prefusion conformation of RSV F generally demonstrate the greatest neutralization potency. Prefusion-stabilized RSV F variants have been engineered as vaccine antigens, but crystal structures of these variants have revealed conformational differences in a key antigenic site located at the apex of the trimer, referred to as antigenic site Ø. Currently, it is unclear if flexibility in this region is an inherent property of prefusion RSV F or if it is related to inadequate stabilization of site Ø in the engineered variants. Therefore, we set out to investigate the conformational flexibility of antigenic site Ø, as well as the ability of the human immune system to recognize alternative conformations of this site, by determining crystal structures of prefusion RSV F bound to neutralizing human-derived antibodies AM22 and RSD5. Both antibodies bound with high affinity and were specific for the prefusion conformation of RSV F. Crystal structures of the complexes revealed that the antibodies recognized distinct conformations of antigenic site Ø, each diverging at a conserved proline residue located in the middle of an α-helix. These data suggest that antigenic site Ø exists as an ensemble of conformations, with individual antibodies recognizing discrete states. Collectively, these results have implications for the refolding of pneumovirus and paramyxovirus fusion proteins and should inform development of prefusion-stabilized RSV F vaccine candidates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306469	vaccine
PLoS neglected tropical diseases	Evaluation of Burkholderia mallei ΔtonB Δhcp1 (CLH001) as a live attenuated vaccine in murine models of glanders and melioidosis.	Our data indicate that CLH001 serves as an effective live attenuated vaccine to prevent glanders and melioidosis. The quantity and quality of antibody responses as well as improving cell-mediated immune responses following vaccination need to be further investigated prior to advancement to preclinical studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306423	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306423	vaccine
The Pediatric infectious disease journal	Narcolepsy and Pandemic Influenza Vaccination: What We Need to Know to be Ready for the Next Pandemic.	After the initial identification of the H1N1 pandemic influenza strain in Mexico in April 2009 and its subsequent global spread, several monovalent influenza vaccines were developed as part of the pandemic response. Three of these vaccines, Pandemrix, Arepanrix and Focetria were adjuvanted. One of these, the AS03-adjuvanted Pandemrix vaccine, was primarily used in Europe. Following widespread Pandemrix vaccine administration in Scandinavia, an increased risk of narcolepsy was noted in observational studies. Subsequently, this increased risk was also reported in other European countries as well. In contrast, studies from Canada of a similar AS03-adjuvanted vaccine, Arepanrix, did not demonstrate a similar increased risk of narcolepsy. No studies have identified an increased risk of narcolepsy following the MF59-adjuvanted Focetria vaccine. For many potential pandemic influenza strains, adjuvants might be required to solicit a protective immune response. Thus, it is critical that we understand the nature of the association between adjuvanted vaccine receipt and narcolepsy. Here, we present a potential hypothesis for narcolepsy seen during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic in AS03-adjuvanted influenza vaccine recipients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306400	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306400	vaccine
The Pediatric infectious disease journal	Clinical Presentation of Influenza in Children 6 to 35 Months of Age: Findings From a Randomized Clinical Trial of Inactivated Quadrivalent Influenza Vaccine.	In addition to preventing influenza in 50% of participants, IIV4 attenuated illness severity and disease burden in children who had a breakthrough influenza episode despite vaccination.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306399	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306399	vaccine
Obstetrics and gynecology	Effects of Educational Interventions on Human Papillomavirus Vaccine Acceptability: A Randomized Controlled Trial.	Clinicaltrials.gov, NCT03337269.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306313	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306313	vaccine
AIDS (London, England)	Viro-immunological outcomes after thirteen-valent pneumococcal vaccination in HIV-1 infected subjects on stable virological suppression.	Viral blips and confirmed virological failures were rarely observed in patients on stable virological suppression in the first 6 months following vaccination with PCV13. Additionally, no decrease of CD4 and CD4/CD8 ratio was recorded.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306174	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306174	vaccine
AIDS (London, England)	Long-term safety and vaccine-induced seropositivity in healthy volunteers from HIV vaccine trials: a French cohort study.	Volunteers showed a sustained high commitment. No long-term safety alert was identified during the postvaccine follow-up. Participating in vaccine trials did not increase risky behaviors for HIV infection. Vaccine-induced seropositivity may persist for more than 23 years after receiving rgp160.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306171	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306171	vaccine
Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics	Combining antimalarial drugs and vaccine for malaria elimination campaigns: a randomised safety and immunogenicity trial of RTS,S/AS01 administered with dihydroartemisinin, piperaquine and primaquine in healthy Thai adult volunteers.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306084	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306084	vaccine
Current opinion in infectious diseases	The first licensed dengue vaccine: can it be used in travelers?	Although there could potentially be substantial protection against severe dengue in seropositive travelers, Dengvaxia is far from an ideal travel vaccine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305495	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305495	vaccine
Current opinion in infectious diseases	Current and new rotavirus vaccines.	Rotavirus vaccines have demonstrated impact in reducing diarrheal morbidity and mortality worldwide. As countries begin to introduce the newly prequalified vaccines, additional data will become available on the safety and effectiveness of those products. Products in the pipeline have distinct profiles and could be an essential part of the expansion of rotavirus vaccine use worldwide.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305493	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305493	vaccine
Expert review of vaccines	Progress in mucosal immunization for protection against pneumococcal pneumonia.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305196	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305196	vaccine
Analytical chemistry	Top-Down Characterization of Lipooligosaccharides from Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria.	Modification of lipooligosaccharide (LOS) structures represents one prevalent mechanism by which Gram-negative bacteria can become resistant to key antibiotics. Owing to the significant complexity of LOS, the structural characterization of these amphipathic lipids has largely focused on elucidation of the lipid A substructures. Analysis of intact LOS enables detection of core oligosaccharide modifications and gives insight into the heterogeneity that results from combinations of lipid A and oligosaccharide substructures. Top-down analysis of intact LOS also provides the opportunity to determine unknown oligosaccharide structures which is particularly advantageous in the context of glycoconjugate vaccine development. Advances in mass spectrometry technologies, including the development of MSn capabilities and alternative ion activation techniques, have made it an indispensable tool for structural characterization of complex biomolecules. Here we combine online chromatographic separations with MS3 utilizing ultraviolet photodissociation (UVPD) and higher energy collision dissociation (HCD). HCD generally provides information about the presence of labile modifications via neutral loss fragments in addition to the saccharide linkage arrangement, whereas UVPD gives more detailed insight about saccharide branching and the positions of non-stoichiometric modifications. This integrated approach was used to characterize LOS from Acinetobacter baumannii 1205 and 5075. Notably, MS3 analysis of A. baumannii 1205, an antibiotic resistant strain, confirmed phosphoethanolamine and hexosamine modification of the lipid A substructure and further enabled derivation of a core oligosaccharide structure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305072	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305072	vaccine
Cancer medicine	Efficacy, immunogenicity and safety of the AS04-HPV-16/18 vaccine in Chinese women aged 18-25 years: End-of-study results from a phase II/III, randomised, controlled trial.	NCT00779766.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305011	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305011	vaccine
Future medicinal chemistry	Foamy matters: an update on 	Immunoadjuvant 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304830	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304830	vaccine
Avian pathology : journal of the W.V.P.A	Evaluation of vaccination against infectious laryngotracheitis (ILT) with recombinant herpesvirus of turkey (rHVT-LT) and chicken embryo origin (CEO) vaccines applied alone or in combination.	The chicken embryo origin (CEO) infectious laryngotracheitis (ILT) live attenuated vaccines, although capable of protecting against disease and reducing challenge virus replication can regain virulence. Recombinant ILT vaccines do not regain virulence but are partially successful at blocking challenge virus replication. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of rHVT-LT vaccination in CEO replication and how this vaccination strategy enhances protection and limit challenge virus transmission to contact naive chickens. The rHVT-LT vaccine was administered at 1 day of age subcutaneously and the CEO vaccine was administered at 6 weeks of age via eye-drop or drinking water. CEO vaccine replication post vaccination, challenge virus replication and transmission post-challenge were evaluated. After vaccination, only the group that received the CEO via eye-drop developed transient conjunctivitis. A significant decrease in CEO replication was detected for the rHVT-LT + CEO groups as compared to groups that received CEO alone. After challenge, reduction in clinical signs and challenge virus replication was observed in all vaccinated groups. However, among the vaccinated groups, the rHVT-LT group presented higher clinical signs and challenge virus replication. Transmission of the challenge virus to contact naive chickens was only observed in the rHVT-LT vaccinated group of chickens. Overall this study found that priming with rHVT-LT reduced CEO virus replication and the addition of a CEO vaccination provided a more robust protection than rHVT alone. Therefore, rHVT-LT + CEO vaccination strategy constitutes an alternative approach to gain better control of the disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304770	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304770	vaccine
Neurosurgery	Neoantigen-Targeting Vaccine Promotes T-Cell Response in Glioblastoma.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304540	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304540	vaccine
NPJ digital medicine	Leveraging deep learning to understand health beliefs about the Human Papillomavirus Vaccine from social media.	Our aim was to characterize health beliefs about the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine in a large set of Twitter posts (tweets). We collected a Twitter data set related to the HPV vaccine from 1 January 2014, to 31 December 2017. We proposed a deep-learning-based framework to mine health beliefs on the HPV vaccine from Twitter. Deep learning achieved high performance in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy. A retrospective analysis of health beliefs found that HPV vaccine beliefs may be evolving on Twitter.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304374	vaccine
International journal of pediatrics & adolescent medicine	Knowledge, attitudes, and practice of healthcare workers toward influenza vaccination at Al Jalila Children's Specialty Hospital (AJCH), Dubai, UAE.	The healthcare workers' knowledge of influenza disease does not reflect their knowledge, attitude, and practice toward influenza vaccination. These results highlight the important predictors that must be targeted to promote hospital awareness campaigns to improve their practice and attitude, which could result in increasing seasonal influenza vaccine uptake.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31304223	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304223	vaccine
The Pan African medical journal	Insights from the fifth International One Health Congress, 2018, Saskatoon, Canada.	The recent outbreaks of diseases including Ebola reemergence in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Nipah virus outbreak in India, Lassa virus in Nigeria and the continued Influenza pandemic show that we cannot predict outbreaks, however, developing response plans could help alleviate the burden of diseases. Developing response plans involves strategies such as creating a repository of microbial agents as well as the implementation of the plans. In addition, zoonotic experts and policy makers should work together in order to succeed in fighting against any disease outbreaks. We should also not forget about the importance of vaccination because of the benefits it has brought to humankind preventing disease occurrence. Furthermore, the challenges that come with vaccination including vaccine delivery and vaccine uptake need to be overcome to make sure that this public health tool continues to be effective. Overcoming these vaccination challenges would play a significant role in decreasing the overuse of antimicrobials, hence avoiding resistance. The One Health Community (OHC) therefore has the responsibility to advocate for the use of vaccines and show that it has costs benefits; this strategy has the potential to fight against antimicrobial resistance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31303937	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303937	vaccine
The Pan African medical journal	Measles outbreak investigation in an urban slum of Kaduna Metropolis, Kaduna State, Nigeria, March 2015.	We identified low RI uptake and contact with measles cases as predictors of measles outbreak in Rigasa, Kaduna State. We recommended strengthening of RI and education of care-givers' on completing RI schedule.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31303921	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303921	vaccine
The Pan African medical journal	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection amongst children in Senegal: current prevalence and seroprotection level.	Our results suggest that although HBV prevalence has significantly decreased in children in Senegal following a better HBV vaccine coverage, the number of children correctly seroprotected is insufficient (56%). Assessing the levels of HBsAb and providing HBV vaccine boosters should be considered in children in Senegal.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31303913	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303913	vaccine
The Malaysian journal of medical sciences : MJMS	Usage of Traditional and Complementary Medicine among Dengue Fever Patients in the Northeast Region of Peninsular Malaysia.	The prevalence of T&CM usage in our population is high. Age, tertiary education and unemployment influence the use of T&CM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Malaysia	31303853	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303853	vaccine
Vaccine	Vaccines for maternal immunization against Group B Streptococcus disease: WHO perspectives on case ascertainment and case definitions.	Group B Streptococcus (GBS) is an important cause of disease in young infants, stillbirths, pregnant and post-partum women. GBS vaccines for maternal immunization are in development aiming to reduce this burden. Standardisation of case definitions and ascertainment methodologies for GBS disease is needed to support future trials of maternal GBS vaccines. Considerations presented here may also serve to promote consistency in observational studies and surveillance, to better establish disease burden. The World Health Organization convened a working group to provide consensus guidance for case ascertainment and case definitions of GBS disease in stillbirths, infants, pregnant and post-partum women, with feedback sought from external stakeholders. In intervention studies, case capture and case ascertainment for GBS disease should be based on antenatal recruitment of women, with active follow-up, systematic clinical assessment, standardised sampling strategies and optimised laboratory methods. Confirmed cases of invasive GBS disease in stillbirths or infants should be included in a primary composite endpoint for vaccine efficacy studies, with GBS cultured from a usually sterile body site (may be post-mortem). For additional endpoints, or observational studies, confirmed cases of GBS sepsis in pregnant and post-partum women should be assessed. Culture independent diagnostic tests (CIDTs) may detect additional presumed cases, however, the use of these diagnostics needs further evaluation. Efficacy of vaccination against maternal and neonatal GBS colonisation, and maternal GBS urinary tract infection could be included as additional, separate, endpoints and/or in observational studies. Whilst the focus here is on specific GBS disease outcomes, intervention studies also present an opportunity to establish the contribution of GBS across adverse perinatal outcomes, including all-cause stillbirth, preterm birth and neonatal encephalopathy.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31303524	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303524	vaccine
Vaccine	Challenges with hepatitis B vaccination of high risk adults - A pilot program.	Dose-series completion was low in all settings, but lowest where patients may be less likely to return for follow-up (e.g., STD clinics). Routinely assessing HepB vaccination needs of high-risk adults, including through use of IIS where available, may facilitate HepB vaccine dose-series completion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303523	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303523	vaccine
Veterinary parasitology, regional studies and reports	Detection of carrier state and genetic diversity of Theileria parva in ECF-vaccinated and naturally exposed cattle in Tanzania.	Infection and Treatment Method (ITM) has been practiced in Tanzania for over 20 years as a prevention measure against East Coast Fever disease. It is known that ITM, like natural ECF infection, leads to a carrier state, whereby vaccinated cattle become asymptomatic carriers of the parasite. It is expected that ECF vaccination using ITM also leads to generation of combinations of vaccine specific Theileria parva and local strains that circulate in the field what contributes to an unknown level of parasite diversity. Moreover, the long term impact of ITM on carrier state and parasite diversity in cattle are largely unknown. To address this question blood was collected from ECF-vaccinated (n = 239) and unvaccinated (n = 97) cattle from Loiborsoit, Emboreet, Esilalei, Manyara ranch and Mswakini villages in the Maasai steppe of northern Tanzania, as well as Mruazi and Leila farms in Tanga in eastern Tanzania. Screening for T. parva using nested PCR revealed an overall prevalence of T. parva to be 34.5%, with a significant higher prevalence among ECF-vaccinated cattle. Using three VNTR markers (ms2, ms5 and MS7) higher parasite genetic diversity in terms of higher number of alleles and expected heterozygosity was shown in vaccinated than unvaccinated cattle. These parameters were highest in cattle from Manyara ranch. Nevertheless, the principle component analysis (PCoA) showed no distinct clustering patterns as most T. parva alleles clustered together throughout the four quadrants implying parasite homogeneity among the sampled populations. However, some of the parasite alleles closely clustered with Muguga vaccine alleles in two of the quadrants, consistent with closer genetic relatedness between the vaccine strains and the T. parva populations from the Maasai steppe. Likewise analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) revealed most of the genetic variation (93%) being contained within populations with only 7% being among populations. This study therefore confirms the role of ECF vaccination in enhancing carrier state and T. parva diversity in vaccinated cattle populations. Higher T. parva diversity may play an important role in carrier cattle by way of restricting breakthrough infections from field parasite strains.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303233	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303233	vaccine
Veterinary parasitology	Canine visceral leishmaniasis biomarkers and their employment in vaccines.	The natural history of canine visceral leishmaniasis (CVL) has been well described, particularly with respect to the parasite load in different tissues and immunopathological changes according to the progression of clinical forms. The biomarkers evaluated in these studies provide support for the improvement of the tools used in developing vaccines against CVL. Thus, we describe the major studies using the dog model that supplies the rationale for including different biomarkers (tissue parasitism, histopathology, hematological changes, leucocytes immunophenotyping, cytokines patterns, and in vitroco-culture systems using purified T-cells subsets and macrophages infected with L. infantum) for immunogenicity and protection evaluations in phases I and II applied to pre-clinical and clinical vaccine trials against CVL. The search for biomarkers related to resistance or susceptibility has revealed a mixed cytokine profile with a prominent proinflammatory immune response as relevant for Leishmania replication at low levels as observed in asymptomatic dogs (highlighted by high levels of IFN-γ and TNF-α and decreased levels in IL-4, TGF-β and IL-10). Furthermore, increased levels in CD4	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31303211	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303211	vaccine
Veterinary parasitology	The Cryptosporidium parvum gp60 glycoprotein expressed in the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila is immunoreactive with sera of calves infected with Cryptosporidium oocysts.	Cryptosporidium parvum is a protozoan parasite of the phylum Apicomplexa responsible for cryptosporidiosis in calves, a disease that causes significant diarrhea and impairs gain of body weight, generating important production losses. As to now, no effective drugs or vaccines are available for the treatment or prevention of bovine cryptosporidiosis. Several reports suggest that development of a vaccine to prevent cryptosporidiosis is feasible, but relatively few vaccine candidates have been characterized and tested. The most prominent C. parvum antigen is gp60, an O-glycosylated mucin-like protein tethered to the parasite membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. Gp60 has been shown to be involved in essential mechanisms for the survival of C. parvum, such as recognition, adhesion to, and invasion of host cells. This work was aimed at expressing gp60 in Tetrahymena thermophila, a ciliated protozoon with numerous advantages for the heterologous expression of eukaryotic proteins, as a first approach for the development of a recombinant vaccine for bovine cryptosporidiosis. T. thermophila-expressed gp60 localized to the protozoon cell surface and oral apparatus, and partitioned into the Triton X-114 detergent phase. This indicates that the protein entered the reticuloendothelial system of the ciliate, and suggests it contains a GPI-anchor. Homogenates of gp60-expressing T. thermophila cells were recognized by sera from calves naturally infected with C. parvum demonstrating their immunoreactivity. In summary, the heterologous expression of gp60, a C. parvum-encoded GPI-anchored protein, has been successfully demonstrated in the ciliate T. thermophila.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303202	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303202	vaccine
Archives of disease in childhood	Two centuries of immunisation in the UK (part II).	The centrally coordinated response that controlled the polio epidemics of the 1950s through immunisation led to the development of a national immunisation strategy in the UK and the formation of the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) in 1963, which oversees the immunisation programme and advises the UK Department of Health on new vaccine introductions. As a result of technological advances in vaccine development and scientific advances in immunology and microbiology over the 56 years since then, and the formation of a comprehensive public health surveillance system for vaccine-preventable disease, the National Health Service immunisation programme now covers 18 serious diseases of childhood, with an astonishing impact on child health. Here we consider the formation of the JCVI and the development of the national immunisation programme and review the introduction of vaccines over the past half century to defend public health.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302603	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302603	vaccine
Cancer treatment reviews	The promise of combining cancer vaccine and checkpoint blockade for treating HPV-related cancer.	Human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated intraepithelial neoplasia or cancers are ideal candidates for cancer immunotherapy since HPV oncoproteins, such as E6 and E7 proteins of high-risk HPVs, could be utilized as foreign antigens. In HPV-associated cancers as well as nonviral cancers, the cancer cells may evade host immunity through the expression of immune checkpoint molecules, downregulation of human leukocyte antigen, and activation of immune regulatory cells. Because of these immune suppressive mechanisms, HPV therapeutic vaccines have shown little efficacy against HPV-associated cancers, although they have shown efficacy in treating HPV-associated intraepithelial neoplasias. Recently, checkpoint blockade emerged as a promising new treatment for solid cancers; however, these therapies have shown only modest efficacy against HPV-associated cancers. Here we reviewed literature analyzing a combinatory therapy using an immune checkpoint inhibitor and an HPV therapeutic vaccine for treating HPV-associated cancers to compensate for shortfalls of each monotherapy. Complimentary modes of T cell activation would be deployed; as vaccines would directly stimulate the T cells, while checkpoint inhibitors would do so by releasing inhibition. Some promising studies using animal models and early human clinical trials raised a possibility that such combinations may be efficacious in regressing HPV-associated cancers. Epitope spreading (the phenomenon in which non-targeted antigens become new targets of immune response) may play a critical role mechanistically. Currently ongoing studies will shed light as to whether such combination therapy would indeed be a promising new treatment paradigm. Current and future studies must also determine the adverse effect profile of such a combination treatment.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31302573	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302573	vaccine
Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie	Significant body mass increase by oral administration of a cascade of shIL21-MSTN yeast-based DNA vaccine in mice.	Base on the practical of MSTN-specific yeast-based protein vaccine in mice as described previously, this research was designed for developing a better DNA vaccine (a cascade of shIL21-MSTN yeast-based DNA vaccine) than solely MSTN yeast-based DNA vaccine to block the endogenous MSTN in the murine model. We first constructed the target vectors, including CMV-driven MSTN expression vector and a combined shIL21-MSTN vector which containing MSTN expression cassette and shIL21 (short hairpin RNA-IL21) expression cassette. After necessary validation, recombinant yeast vaccines harboring different vectors were well prepared. Subsequently, after 2-month administration, the MSTN-specific immune response was detected with western blots. The commercial ELISA assays indicated that the production of IL21 and IL6 were decreased compared with control groups. More importantly, the MSTN-specific antibody titer was much higher in the shIL21-MSTN group than MSTN group, which was consistent with the western blots result. The most important finding was significant body mass increased after oral administration of these yeast-based DNA vaccines, in which the shIL21-MSTN vaccine is slightly higher than the sole MSTN vaccine in mice. In this study, we confirmed the role of different MSTN-specific yeast-based DNA vaccines on increasing body mass in mice, to provide a good inspiration for livestock breeding through the new type of immunoregulatory method. On the other hand, we also detected the possible modulating role of shIL21 on the dendritic cell-mediated immune function which needs more practical application and deeper exploration.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31302418	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302418	vaccine
Infection, genetics and evolution : journal of molecular epidemiology and evolutionary genetics in infectious diseases	Characterization of the RAGE-binding protein, Strongyloides venestatin, produced by the silkworm-baculovirus expression system.	The receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) recognizes Ca	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302241	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302241	vaccine
Advanced drug delivery reviews	A toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) agonist ARNAX for therapeutic immunotherapy.	Vaccine immunotherapy consisting of tumor antigens combined with an immune-enhancing adjuvant fosters cytotoxic T cell (CTL) proliferation. Clinically, polyI:C has been used as an adjuvant to enhance cancer vaccine protocols. However, according to its long history, polyI:C promotes inflammation that causes cytokine toxicity. Although checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy has improved the prognoses of patients with progressive cancer, over 75% of patients continue to experience resistance to antibody (Ab) against anti-programmed cell death-protein 1 (PD-1) or its ligand, PD-L1 therapy. In most cases, patients suffer from adverse events resulting from inflammation during anti-PD-1/L1 Ab therapy, which is a serious obstacle to patients' quality of life. We have studied the functional properties of double-stranded (ds)RNA and polyI:C, and developed a nucleic acid adjuvant that barely induces a significant increase in the level of serum inflammatory cytokines in mouse models. This adjuvant, termed ARNAX, consists of DNA-capped dsRNA that specifies the endosomal target for Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) in dendritic cells (DCs). We expect that this adjuvant is safe for administration in elderly patients with cancer receiving immunotherapy. Here, we summarize the properties of ARNAX for immunotherapy in mice. We suggest that DC-priming is essential to induce anti-tumor immunity; neither exogenous inflammation nor the administration of tumor antigens is always a prerequisite for DC-mediated CTL proliferation. If our mouse data can be extrapolated to humans, ARNAX and the liberated endogenous tumor antigens may facilitate effect of current therapies on patients with therapy-resistant tumors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302192	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302192	vaccine
International journal of biological macromolecules	Optimization of induction parameters, structure quality assessment by ATR-FTIR and in silico characterization of expressed recombinant polcalcin in three different strains of Escherichia coli.	The inhalation of Chenopodium album (C. album) pollen, especially polcalcin (Che a 3), has been reported as a significant source of allergic respiratory symptoms. This study was conducted to characterize biophysical differences of recombinant polcalcin come from three different Escherichia coli strains using attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (ATR-FTIR), optimize recombinant polcalcin expression, and linear B-cell epitopes identification using in silico methods. ATR-FTIR results of purified proteins showed spectra intensity variance in the amide I region, while there were no changes in pick position and shape of the bands. SHuffle® T7 Express was selected for subsequent optimization due to ability in the correction of the mis-oxidized bonds and promotes proper folding which was validated by ATR-FTIR analysis results. Then, Response Surface Methodology was performed to optimize critical factors including induction temperature, duration of induction, and concentration of inducer. The best partitioning conditions were achieved in 1.5 mM IPTG for 10.97 h at 29.9 °C. Finally, prediction of polcalcin B-cell epitopes was carried out which indicated the presence of 4 different epitopes. Together, the results may help to the development of diagnostic approaches and also vaccine manufacture for desensitization and modulation of the allergic response in patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302128	vaccine
Vaccine	Long-term effectiveness of zoster vaccine live for postherpetic neuralgia prevention.	Overall, ZVL was 65% effective against PHN. It was effective in all age groups and provided moderate protection through 8 years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301920	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301920	vaccine
Vaccine	Randomized study of immune responses to two Tdap vaccines among adolescents primed with DTaP and comparison with results among adolescents primed with DTwP.	Taken together, these results from randomized clinical trials provide direct evidence of reduced antibody responses to both licensed Tdap vaccines among adolescents primed with DTaP vaccine, compared with adolescents primed with DTwP vaccine. Clinical trial registry number: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01629589.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301919	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301919	vaccine
Vaccine	Acceptance and uptake of influenza vaccines in Asia: A systematic review.	In Asia, the public health burden of influenza is significant despite the existence of efficacious influenza vaccines. Annual seasonal influenza vaccination can reduce the incidence of influenza significantly, yet influenza vaccination coverage remains low in this part of the world. As a densely populated region with varying climatic zones and a larger proportion of developing countries compared to the West, Asia is at increased risk of influenza. To provide a more comprehensive and nuanced understanding of the Asian region, the key objective of this systematic review is to examine the determinants of vaccination uptake in Asia, beyond that of existing studies that have largely been western-centric. We carried out a systematic review of peer-reviewed scientific research, examining the key determinants, acceptance and uptake of influenza vaccinations across Asia. A comprehensive search strategy was defined to capture studies that met the inclusion criteria of articles published in English, from 2008 to 2018, focusing on adult populations within Asia. A total of 83 relevant studies were appraised in this review. Analyses of the extant data confirmed that vaccination rates within Asia are low, and that most countries lack scientific research on vaccination behaviours. Studies were categorised into four different population groups: healthcare workers, high risk groups, general population and uniform groups. The motivators and deterrents for vaccine uptake varied according to population groups and characteristics. Both general populations and healthcare workers were concerned with vaccine safety and efficacy, and recommendations from health authorities were influential in vaccine uptake within the other populations. The findings suggest that further research is needed within a broader range of Asian countries to garner greater in-depth knowledge of vaccination behaviours in the region. In particular, influenza vaccination programs within Asia should focus on improving engagement more effectively, through greater relatability and transparency of data when educating the public.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31301918	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301918	vaccine
Vaccine	Trials of the killed oral cholera vaccine (Shanchol) in India and Bangladesh: Lessons learned and way forward.	Cholera has been endemic in India and Bangladesh for the greater part of recorded history, giving this region the reputation of being the 'homeland of cholera'. The causative organism Vibrio cholerae O1 has been responsible for large epidemics and pandemics. Bangladesh and India have conducted several sequential studies of Oral Cholera Vaccine (OCV) to ascertain its safety, efficacy, effectiveness, field feasibility and acceptance in high-risk urban populations. The objective of this article is to illustrate the experience of OCV use in these endemic settings, its major challenges, and how policymakers can grant vaccine licenses as well as implement its use in the national immunization programme. The relevant aspects of the OCV studies, such as boosting the effect of vaccine, single-dose versus double-dose trials and thermal stability of the vaccine during delivery have generated strong evidence for recommendation of vaccine use in these settings. Studies have shown that a single dose is effective for children of five years of age and older age groups. The locally manufactured vaccine in India is thermostable and can be delivered in field settings without use of cold chain. The vaccine delivery is feasible and the protective efficacy (PE) of this vaccine above five years of age against cholera was 53-65%. Administration of an OCV boosting regimen elicits an immune response similar to those who received a two-dose vaccine five years back. OCV can be used as a preemptive measure in endemic settings, in natural calamities and during political instability when there is total disruption as well as collapse of safe water supply, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) facilities and other control measures. Clear identification of areas and target population (who will gain benefit from the OCVs) is required to be developed in endemic settings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301917	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301917	vaccine
Vaccine	Cost-effectiveness of meningococcal polysaccharide serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y conjugate vaccine in Australian adolescents.	The likelihood of this program being cost-effective under a willingness to pay threshold AU$50,000 per QALY gained is 35%.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301916	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301916	vaccine
Journal of dairy science	Immune cells transferred by colostrum do not influence the immune responses to foot-and-mouth disease primary vaccination.	Little is known about the influence of maternal antibodies and immune cells transferred through colostrum on the immune responses of calves to the currently used foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) vaccines. Here we evaluated the humoral and cellular immune responses induced by vaccination of colostrum-deprived calves and calves that received equivalent amounts of colostrum preparations that differed in the presence or absence of maternal immune cells but contained the same quantity and quality of anti-foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) antibodies. Three groups of 32-d-old calves (n = 3 per group) were deprived of colostrum and fed either whole immune colostrum or a cell-free colostrum preparation containing only anti-FMDV antibodies. All groups were immunized with 1 dose of an oil-adjuvanted commercial vaccine. Blood samples were collected periodically before vaccination and weekly after vaccination. Immune responses specific to FMDV were assessed based on T-cell proliferation, IFN-γ production, total and neutralizing serum antibodies, and isotype profile. All vaccinated calves developed IFN-γ and lymphoproliferative responses, irrespective of the colostrum received. Colostrum-deprived animals responded to vaccination with a primary IgM response followed by an increase of IgG	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301846	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301846	vaccine
Virus research	Characterization of a replication-competent vector encoding DsRed based on a human adenovirus type 4 a-like strain.	Human adenovirus type 4 (HAdV4) is an etiological agent of acute respiratory disease (ARD) in pediatric and adult patients. HAdV4 strains can be divided into two major genomic clusters, namely prototype (p)-like viruses and a-like viruses. Here, the complete genome sequence of HAdV4 strain GZ01, isolated from a child with ARD in southern China, is first reported and analyzed. This strain was determined to be of the 4a1 genome-type based on in silico restriction profiles. Then, a replication-competent rAd4DsRed virus, containing the HAdV4 GZ01 infectious genome and expressing the reporter molecule DsRed, was generated and characterized. Recombinant rAd4DsRed can infect AD293, hamster, and mouse cells in which DsRed protein was expressed. No changes in antigenicity and genome replication were detected for rAd4DsRed and wild-type HAdV4. Mice immunized with rAd4DsRed was elicited a marked antibody response to DsRed. A rapid method of testing neutralizing antibodies against HAdV3 and HAdV4 was also established using a mixture of rAd4DsRed and rAd3EGFP. Our results provide the foundation to develop HAdV4 vaccines, potential vector platforms for vaccine and gene therapy, and rapid methods for serological and antiviral screening.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301331	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301331	vaccine
The Journal of infectious diseases	HLA-I associated adaptation dampens the CD8 T-cell response in HIV Ad5-vectored vaccine recipients.	HLA-I associated HIV adaptation is known to negatively impact disease progression and CD8 T-cell responses. We aimed to assess how HLA-I associated adaptation impacts HIV vaccine-induced CD8 T-cell responses in two past vaccine efficacy trials. We found that vaccine-encoded adapted epitopes were less immunogenic than vaccine-encoded non-adapted epitopes, and adapted epitope-specific responses were less polyfunctional than non-adapted epitope-specific responses. Along those lines, vaccine recipients with higher HLA-I adaptation to the Gag vaccine insert mounted less polyfunctional CD8 T-cell responses at the protein-level. Response breadth, which correlated with viral control in recipients who became infected, is also dampened by HLA-I adaptation. These findings suggest that HLA-I associated adaptation is an important consideration for strategies aiming to induce robust CD8 T-cell responses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301135	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301135	vaccine
AMB Express	Immunization with recombinant fusion of LTB and linear epitope (40-62) of epsilon toxin elicits protective immune response against the epsilon toxin of Clostridium perfringens type D.	Epsilon toxin (Etx) produced by Clostridium perfringens types B and D, a major causative agent of enterotoxaemia causes significant economic losses to animal industry. Conventional vaccines against these pathogens generally employ formalin-inactivated culture supernatants. However, immunization with the culture supernatant and full length toxin subjects the animal to antigenic load and often have adverse effect due to incomplete inactivation of the toxins. In the present study, an epitope-based vaccine against Clostridium perfringens Etx, comprising 40-62 amino acid residues of the toxin in translational fusion with heat labile enterotoxin B subunit (LTB) of E. coli, was evaluated for its protective potential. The ability of the fusion protein rLTB.Etx	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31300915	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300915	vaccine
AMB Express	Preparation and characterization of a single-domain antibody specific for the porcine epidemic diarrhea virus spike protein.	Porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED) is a diarrheal disease of swine caused by porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV). It is characterized by acute watery diarrhea, dehydration and vomiting in swine of all ages and is especially fatal for neonatal and postweaning piglets. The spike protein of PEDV plays an important role in mediating virus attachment and fusion to target cells, and recent studies also reported that the neutralizing epitopes of the spike protein were mainly located in the S1 subunit, which makes it a candidate for vaccine development and clinical diagnosis. In this study, we successfully constructed an immune phage display single-domain antibody library with a library size of 3.4 × 10	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31300902	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300902	vaccine
Archives of virology	Coding-complete sequence of a vaccine-derived recombinant porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus strain isolated in Hungary.	Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus 1 is a major cause of swine morbidity and mortality in various parts of the world, including Hungary. A national elimination programme to reduce the associated economic burden was initiated in Hungary in 2012. Using extensive laboratory surveillance, we identified and isolated an unusual PRRSV strain. The complete coding sequence of this isolate was determined and analyzed. The genome of this Hungarian PRRSV1 strain, HUN60077/16, is 15,081 nucleotides in length. Phylogenetic and recombination analysis showed a mosaic structure of the genome where a large fragment of ORF1b and the genomic region coding for ORF3 to ORF7 showed a very close genetic relationship to the vaccine virus Unistrain, while the ORF1a region, the 3' end of ORF1b, and the whole ORF2 were only distantly related to this or any other PRRSV1 strain whose genome sequence is available in the GenBank database. Genomic characterization of PRRSV strains is crucial when possible vaccine-associated cases are identified. This approach not only helps to identify genetic interactions between vaccine and wild-type PRRSV1 strains but may also be needed to prevent trust in commercial vaccines from being undermined.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Austria	31300889	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300889	vaccine
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Pre-existing anti-neuraminidase antibodies are associated with shortened duration of influenza A (H1N1)pdm virus shedding and illness in naturally infected adults.	Our results suggest that anti-NA antibodies play a large role in reducing influenza illness duration in adults and may impact transmission, most clearly among adults. Neuraminidase should be considered as an additional target in next-generation influenza virus vaccine development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300819	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300819	vaccine
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Community-Acquired Bacterial Meningitis In Adults With Cerebrospinal Fluid Leakage.	Bacterial meningitis in patients with CSF leakage have a high recurrence rate, despite surgical repair or vaccination, and outcome is generally favorable. CSF leakage should be suspected in patients with bacterial meningitis presenting with liquorrhoea, recurrent meningitis or with disease caused by H. influenzae.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300817	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300817	vaccine
Scientific reports	Construction, Expression and Evaluation of Recombinant VP2 Protein for serotype-independent Detection of FMDV Seropositive Animals in Egypt.	Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is one of the most devastating viral pathogens of cloven-hoofed animals. The detection of antibodies (Ab) against FMDV structural proteins (SP) using virus neutralization test (VNT) and liquid-phase blocking ELISA (LPBE) is the standard procedure in use for monitoring seroconversion in animals post vaccination, the prevalence of infection-surveillance, proving clinical cases and seronegative status of FMDV-free/naïve-animals prior transportation. However, due to variations within SP of FMDV serotypes, each serotype-specific Ab should be detected separately which is laborious and time-consuming. Accordingly, it is crucial to develop a sensitive, rapid, and accurate test capable of detecting FMDV-specific Ab, regardless its serotype. This study describes the heterologous expression of VP2 protein in E. coli, and its evaluation as a capture antigen in a simple indirect ELISA for serotype-independent detection of anti-FMDV Ab. Sequence analysis revealed that the VP2-coding sequence is considerably conserved among FMDV serotypes. The recombinant VP2 (rVP2), a 22 kDa polypeptide, was purified to near homogeneity by affinity chromatography under native conditions. Immunoreactivity of the rVP2 was confirmed by using a panel of positive sera including sera from animals vaccinated with the local trivalent vaccine and guinea pig FMDV antiserum, which is routinely used as tracing/detecting Ab in LPBE testing. The results obtained from the VP2-based ELISA were comparable to those determined by VNT and LPBE standard diagnostic assays. Specificity and sensitivity of rVP2 in capturing anti-FMDV Ab were 98.3% and 100%, respectively. The developed VP2-ELISA is proved reliable and time-efficient assay for detection of FMDV seropositive animals, regardless the FMDV serotype that can be implemented in a combination with VNT and/or LPBE for rapid diagnosis of an ongoing FMDV infection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300744	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300744	vaccine
Gene therapy	Inside out: optimization of lipid nanoparticle formulations for exterior complexation and in vivo delivery of saRNA.	Self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) is a promising biotherapeutic tool that has been used as a vaccine against both infectious diseases and cancer. saRNA has been shown to induce protein expression for up to 60 days and elicit immune responses with lower dosing than messenger RNA (mRNA). Because saRNA is a large (~9500 nt), negatively charged molecule, it requires a delivery vehicle for efficient cellular uptake and degradation protection. Lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) have been widely used for RNA formulations, where the prevailing paradigm is to encapsulate RNA within the particle, including the first FDA-approved small-interfering siRNA therapy. Here, we compared LNP formulations with cationic and ionizable lipids with saRNA either on the interior or exterior of the particle. We show that LNPs formulated with cationic lipids protect saRNA from RNAse degradation, even when it is adsorbed to the surface. Furthermore, cationic LNPs deliver saRNA equivalently to particles formulated with saRNA encapsulated in an ionizable lipid particle, both in vitro and in vivo. Finally, we show that cationic and ionizable LNP formulations induce equivalent antibodies against HIV-1 Env gp140 as a model antigen. These studies establish formulating saRNA on the surface of cationic LNPs as an alternative to the paradigm of encapsulating RNA.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300730	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300730	vaccine
Scientific reports	Circulating CXCR3	Circulating T follicular helper (cTfh) cells have been identified as counterparts of germinal center Tfh (GC Tfh) cells in humans and can support T-dependent B cell maturation and antibody production in vitro. However, the role of cTfh cells in neutralizing antibody (nAb) responses in HCV infection remains unclear. Here, we characterized the phenotype and function of cTfh cells and demonstrated the associations of cTfh cells and their subsets with nAb responses in HCV infection. A total of 38 HCV-infected individuals and 28 healthy controls were enrolled from a pool of injection drug users. The frequency and function of blood Tfh cells were analyzed by flow cytometry. The titers and breadths of serum nAbs were measured using HCV pseudo-particle neutralization assays. Herein, we report several key observations. First, HCV infection skewed cTfh toward CXCR3	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300682	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300682	vaccine
BMJ open	What school-level and area-level factors influenced HPV and MenACWY vaccine coverage in England in 2016/2017? An ecological study.	Tailored approaches are required to improve HPV vaccine coverage in Muslim and Jewish schools. In addition, better ways of reaching pupils in smaller specialist schools are needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300506	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300506	vaccine
The Lancet. Infectious diseases	Long-term incidence of severe malaria following RTS,S/AS01 vaccination in children and infants in Africa: an open-label 3-year extension study of a phase 3 randomised controlled trial.	GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300331	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300331	vaccine
The Lancet. Infectious diseases	Characterisation of infectious Ebola virus from the ongoing outbreak to guide response activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: a phylogenetic and in vitro analysis.	US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300330	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300330	vaccine
Vaccine	Temporal trends in anti-vaccine discourse on Twitter.	Despite vaccination's role in preventing communicable diseases, misinformation threatens uptake. Social media may disseminate such anti-vaccination messages. We characterized trends in pro- and anti-vaccination discourse on Twitter. All tweets between 2010 and 2019 containing vaccine-related hashtags were identified. Pro- and anti-vaccine tweets and users per quarter (3-months) were tabulated; discussion subcommunities were identified with network analysis. 1,637,712 vaccine-related tweets were identified from 154 pro-vaccine and 125 anti-vaccine hashtags, with 86% of users posting exclusively pro-vaccine and 12% posting exclusively anti-vaccine hashtags. Pro-vaccine tweet volumes are larger than anti-vaccine tweets and consistently increase over time. In contrast, anti-vaccine tweet volumes have decreased since 2014, despite an increasing anti-vaccine user-base. Users infrequently responded across pro/anti-vaccine alignment (0.2%). Despite greater volumes of pro-vaccination discourse in recent years, and the anti-vaccination content userbase being smaller, the anti-vaccine community continues to grow in size. This finding coupled with the minimal inter-communication between communities suggests possible ideological isolation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31300292	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300292	vaccine
Vaccine	Uptake and spread of infectious laryngotracheitis vaccine virus within meat chicken flocks following drinking water vaccination.	Vaccination against infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV) in commercial broiler flocks in the field, which is only undertaken in the face of a local outbreak, requires mass administration techniques, usually via drinking water. This is often fraught with difficulties such as variable vaccination "reactions" and sometimes, vaccination failure. Laboratory testing of the outbreak strains however invariably shows the vaccines in use to be protective. To investigate this paradox, the dynamics of an ILT vaccine virus was examined within broiler flocks during a natural outbreak. In an initial flock, 70 birds were individually identified and had tracheal swabs collected sequentially at intervals from 1 to 26 days after vaccination and submitted for ILTV detection using qPCR. This evaluation was extended by collection of tracheal swabs from 40 to 45 random birds at 4, 7-8, 12-13 and 25-26 days post vaccination (pv) across a further 7 flocks. The results showed a very variable early uptake of vaccine virus from the drinking water (between 3% and 52% of tested birds with detectable virus in trachea at 4 days pv) and revealed that actual vaccination of the flocks relied on bird to bird transmission of the vaccine virus. In flocks with very low (<10%) initial bird uptake, successful exposure of vaccine virus to the majority of the flock can be delayed, leaving a large proportion of birds as susceptible at the likely time of possible exposure to wild virus. This may explain the cases of apparent failure of vaccination in the field. The variable bird to bird spread can be associated with reversion to virulence, this may explain the rolling vaccine reactions often observed. The variation in initial vaccine uptake may be affected by some factors involved with the administration technique and this requires further study in a larger sample size.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31300291	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300291	vaccine
Vaccine	Persistence of immunity to conjugate and polysaccharide pneumococcal vaccines in frail, hospitalised older adults in long-term follow up.	While ELISA responses in both study arms remained high 6 years post-vaccination, considerable waning was observed by OPA in both study arms, which should be considered given the current single-dose recommendation in Australia. Further research is needed to inform pneumococcal vaccine recommendations in people over the age of 65.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31300288	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300288	vaccine
Vaccine	Purification of rabies virus produced in Vero cells grown in serum free medium.	Rabies is a viral zoonosis caused by negative-stranded RNA viruses of the Lyssavirus genus. It can affect all mammals including humans. Dogs are the main source of human rabies deaths, contributing up to 99% of all rabies transmissions to humans. Vaccination against rabies is still the sole efficient way to fight against the disease. Cell culture vaccines are recommended by World Health Organization (WHO) for pre and post exposure prophylaxis; among them Vero cell rabies vaccines which are used worldwide. In this work we studied the purification of inactivated rabies virus produced in Vero cells grown in animal component free conditions, using different methods. Cells were grown in VP-SFM medium in stirred bioreactor, then infected at an MOI of 0.05 with the LP2061 rabies virus strain. Collected harvests were purified by zonal centrifugation, and by chromatography supports, namely the Capto Core 700 and the monolithic CIM-QA column. Generated data were compared in terms of residual DNA level, host cell proteins (HCP) level and the overall recovery yield. Rabies virus purification using the monolithic column resulted in the highest antigen recovery yield, equal to 94%. Capto Core 700 showed a lower yield, about 84%; whereas the purification yield by zonal centrifugation was equal to 60%. In terms of host cell residual DNA removal, zonal centrifugation was the most efficient method; the removal yield was equal to 88.5%; elimination of host cell DNA was slightly lower when using the monolithic CIM-QA (equal to 73%). Whereas Capto Core 700 showed the lowest level (49.2%). Host cell protein removal varied between 92.6% for the monolithic column and 78.6% for the zonal centrifugation. Capto Core 700 eliminated 86.5% of HCP.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31300287	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300287	vaccine
Vaccine	Effective mosaic-based nanovaccines against avian influenza in poultry.	Avian influenza virus (AIV) is an extraordinarily diverse pathogen that causes significant morbidity in domesticated poultry populations and threatens human life with looming pandemic potential. Controlling avian influenza in susceptible populations requires highly effective, economical and broadly reactive vaccines. Several AIV vaccines have proven insufficient despite their wide use, and better technologies are needed to improve their immunogenicity and broaden effectiveness. Previously, we developed a "mosaic" H5 subtype hemagglutinin (HA) AIV vaccine and demonstrated its broad protection against diverse highly pathogenic H5N1 and seasonal H1N1 virus strains in mouse and non-human primate models. There is a significant interest in developing effective and safe vaccines against AIV that cannot contribute to the emergence of new strains of the virus once circulating in poultry. Here, we report on the development of an H5 mosaic (H5M) vaccine antigen formulated with polyanhydride nanoparticles (PAN) that provide sustained release of encapsulated antigens. H5M vaccine constructs were immunogenic whether delivered by the modified virus Ankara (MVA) strain or encapsulated within PAN. Both humoral and cellular immune responses were generated in both specific-pathogen free (SPF) and commercial chicks. Importantly, chicks vaccinated by H5M constructs were protected in terms of viral shedding from divergent challenge with a low pathogenicity avian influenza (LPAI) strain at 8 weeks post-vaccination. In addition, protective levels of humoral immunity were generated against highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) of the similar H5N1 and genetically dissimilar H5N2 viruses. Overall, the developed platform technologies (MVA vector and PAN encapsulation) were safe and provided high levels of sustained protection against AIV in chickens. Such approaches could be used to design more efficacious vaccines against other important poultry infections.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31300285	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300285	vaccine
Lancet (London, England)	RTS,S malaria vaccine could provide major public health benefits.	 	2019	eng	Letter	England	31300170	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300170	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	A simplified roller bottle platform for the production of a new generation VLPs rabies vaccine for veterinary applications.	Rabies is a neglected disease with an estimated annual mortality of 55,000 human deaths, affecting mainly low-income countries. Over 95% of these cases result from virus transmission through the bite of infected dogs and for this reason there is a real need for a cheap and effective rabies veterinary vaccine to be used in mass vaccination campaigns. In this work, we describe the establishment of a simple platform for the production of a virus-like particles based rabies vaccine using mammalian cells and roller bottles as culture system. Adherent cells were cultured during more than 15 days and VLPs were continuously produced and secreted to the culture supernatant. Immunogenicity and protective efficacy of VLPs were tested through rabies virus neutralizing antibody test and NIH potency test. These viral particles induced high titer of long lasting neutralizing antibodies and protected mice against active virus challenge. Therefore, this development represents a promising platform for the production of a new generation and virus-free rabies vaccine candidate for veterinary applications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300130	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300130	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Differences in immune responses of pigs vaccinated with Salmonella Typhimurium and S. Choleraesuis strains and challenged with S. Choleraesuis.	S. Choleraesuis (Choleraesuis) and S. Typhimurium (Typhimurium) cause salmonellosis in pigs and humans. The effects of vaccine strains pSV-less Typhimurium OU5048 and Choleraesuis OU7266 and SPI-2-mutant Choleraesuis SC2284 on the immune responses of pigs against Typhimurium, Choleraesuis, and S. Enteritidis (Enteritidis) with or without the virulence plasmid (pSV) were determined. After oral vaccination of three vaccine groups and challenge with Choleraesuis CN36, the level of Salmonella-specific IgG in sera and the bactericidal effects and superoxide generation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) against the above strains were determined using ELISA and NBT assay, respectively. Among three vaccine strains tested, OU7266 stimulated the highest Salmonella-specific IgG levels. Complement inactivation increased IgG concentration, while E. coli absorption reduced IgG levels. The pSV-containing strains were less resistant to serum killing than the pSV-less strains, and Enteritidis exhibited the lowest resistance to serum killing. Serovars tested, vaccine strains, and timeline periods postvaccination and challenge were important factors affecting superoxide production. The two Choleraesuis vaccine strains stimulated greater levels of superoxide from PMNs and PBMCs than the Typhimurium strains. The PMNs and PBMCs in challenged and vaccinated pigs reduced more superoxide than those in challenged hosts. In vaccinated hosts, pSV-less Salmonella strains triggered lower levels of PMN/PBMC-generated superoxide upon challenge than strains with pSV against Enteritidis and Choleraesuis. Overall, Choleraesuis OU7266 may be better than the other vaccine strains in generating the greatest IgG levels, serum bactericidal activity and superoxide levels. The pSV likely influences the immune responses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300124	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300124	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Immunogenic and protective antigens of Brucella as vaccine candidates.	Brucella is an intracellular pathogen that causes abortion in domestic animals and undulant fever in humans. Due to the lack of a human vaccine against brucellosis, animal vaccines play an important role in the management of animal and human brucellosis for decades. Strain 19, RB51 and Rev1 are the approved Brucella spp. vaccine strains that are most commonly used to protect livestock against infection and abortion. However, due to some disadvantages of these vaccines, numerous studies have been conducted for the development of effective vaccines that could also be used in other susceptible animals. In this review, we compare different aspects of immunogenic antigens that have been a candidate for the brucellosis vaccine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300122	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300122	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Viral interference between H9N2-low pathogenic avian influenza virus and avian infectious bronchitis virus vaccine strain H120 in vivo.	The interaction between a low pathogenic avian influenza virus (A/CK/TUN/145/2012), a H9N2 Tunisian isolate, and a vaccine strain (H120) of avian infectious bronchitis, administered simultaneously or sequentially three days apart to chicks during 20 days, was evaluated using ELISA antibody levels, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analyses and histopathology examination. First, the in vivo replication interference of avian influenza virus (AIV) and infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) was evaluated using qRT-PCR to detect accurately either AIV or IBV genomes or viral copy numbers during dual infections. Second, we have determined the amount of specific antibodies in sera of chick's infected with AIV alone, IBV alone, mixed AIV + IBV, IBV then AIV or AIV IBV 3 days later using an ELISA test. Finally, histopathological analyses of internal organs from inoculated chicks were realized. Quantitative results of AIV and IBV co-infection showed that interferences between the two viruses yielded decreased viral growth. However, in the case of super-infection, the second virus, either AIV or IBV, induced a decrease in the growth of the first inoculated virus. According to our results, vaccine application was safe and do not interfere with AIV H9N2 infection, and does not enhance such infection. In conclusion, co-infection of chicks with AIV and IBV, simultaneously or sequentially, affected the clinical signs, the virus replication dynamics as well as the internal organ integrity. The results proposed that infection with heterologous virus may result in temporary competition for cell receptors or competent cells for replication, most likely interferon-mediated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300117	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300117	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Cloning and expression of immunogenic Clostridium botulinum C2I mutant proteins designed from their evolutionary imprints.	C2 toxin produced from Clostridium botulinum serotypes C and D has a potential role in many pathophysiological mechanisms in birds and animals. It has encompassed an ADP ribosyltransferase subunit (C2I) and a translocation/binding subunit (C2II). In the present study, we intended to produce C2I mutant proteins as recombinant subunit vaccines by using glutathione-S-transferase-gene fusion system. The mutants of this study were previously evaluated from their evolutionary imprints and suggested as suitable candidates for subunit vaccines. A synthetic C2 gene was inserted in a pGEX-2T vector, cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 host. The expressed mutant proteins were purified by using glutathione-agarose column and then examined for their ADP ribosyltransferase activity and vaccinogenic characteristics. The pGEX-2T-C2I constructs with Y298F, S347A and S350A substitutions have shown effective transformation efficiencies in E. coli XL10 competent cells but their mutagenesis efficiency was relatively low. Gene expression analysis indicated the rate of gene expression was depended on the fused mutant genes. A high-level expression was achieved for Y298F, S347A and S350A mutant proteins. All purified protein exhibited a molecular mass of 49 kDa. C2I mutant proteins exhibited a reduced ADP ribosyltransferase activity with retained immunogenic and vaccinogenic characteristics compared to the wild-type C2I subunit. The overall analysis of our study suggested the recombinant C2I proteins (S197A and Y298F) are the most promising candidates for the development of subunit vaccine or immunogen for C2 mutants mediated diseases in birds and animals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300115	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300115	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Construction of recombinant capripoxviruses as vaccine vectors for delivering foreign antigens: Methodology and application.	Goatpox (GTP), sheeppox (SPP) and lumpy skin disease (LSD) are three severe diseases of goat, sheep and cattle. Their typical clinical symptoms are characterized by vesicles, papules, nodules, pustules and scabs on animal skins. The GTP, SPP and LSD are caused by goatpox virus (GTPV), sheeppox virus (SPPV) and lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV), respectively, all of which belong to the genus Capripoxvirus in the family Poxviridae. Several capripoxvirus (CaPV) isolates have been virulently attenuated through serial passaging in vitro for production of live vaccines. CaPV-based vector systems have been broadly used to construct recombinant vaccines for delivering foreign antigens, many of which have been demonstrated to induce effective immune protections. Homologous recombination is the most commonly used method for constructing recombinant CaPVs. Here, we described a methodology for generation of recombinant CaPVs by the homologous recombination, and further reviewed CaPV-vectored vaccines for delivering foreign antigens.	2019	eng	Review	England	31300111	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300111	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Comparative immune response and pathogenicity of the H9N2 avian influenza virus after administration of Immulant	Avian influenza vaccines are commonly used in the poultry industry, and some medicinal plants can increase the efficacy of such vaccines. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of Immulant	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300109	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300109	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Strength and medium-term impact of HisAK70 immunization in dogs: Vaccine safety and biomarkers of effectiveness for ex vivo Leishmania infantum infection.	HisAK70 candidates have successfully been tested in cutaneous (CL) and visceral leishmaniosis (VL) mouse models. Here, we analyse different biomarkers in dog trials after a heterologous immunization strategy with a HisAK70 candidate (plasmid DNA plus adoptive transfer of peripheral blood-derived dendritic cells (DCs) pulsed with the same pathoantigen and CpG ODN as an adjuvant) to explore the antileishmanial activity in an ex vivo canine co-culture system in the presence of Leishmania infantum parasites. In the canine model, the heterologous HisAK70 vaccine could decrease the infection index in the DC-T cell co-culture system by up to 54% after 30 days and reach almost 67% after 100 days post-immunization, respectively, compared to those obtained in the control group of dogs. The observed security and potential to ﬁght ex vivo L. infantum infection highlight a HisAK70 heterologous immunization strategy as a promising alternative to evaluate its effectiveness against canine VL.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300103	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300103	vaccine
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Understanding the epidemiology of sheep-pox outbreaks among vaccinated Algerian sheep and post vaccination evaluation of the antibodies kinetics of the commercially used vaccine.	Sheep pox is a disease of veterinary concern to small ruminant producers and veterinary diagnosticians, because of the associated tangible economic losses. The epidemiological analysis of sheep pox, among vaccinated sheep flock in Algeria from 2007 to 2016, showed that the disease outbreaks occurred every year and across all Algeria region with an average of 44.9 outbreaks per year, these outbreaks correlate with the region climate, the flocks' density and the transhumance practices. The one-year post vaccination antibody kinetics evaluation study of the commercially used vaccine in Algeria demonstrated a mild humoral response, the neutralization index range between 0.73 and 1.22. Therefore, the present study recommends a challenge study, using a virulent local strain, to evaluate the vaccine efficacy. Furthermore, quality control approach for the vaccine production processes is required.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300101	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300101	vaccine
Parasites & vectors	Co-immunization with two recombinant Eimeria tenella lines expressing immunoprotective antigens of E. maxima elicits enhanced protection against E. maxima infection.	These results demonstrated that Eimeria is an effective vaccine vector that can carry and deliver heterologous Eimeria antigens to the host immune system and trigger specific immune responses. Our results also suggested that increasing the number of recombinant Eimeria lines is an effective approach to enhance protective immunity against infections with heterologous pathogens.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300007	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300007	vaccine
BMC infectious diseases	Telbivudine can safely reduce mother-to-child transmission in chronic hepatitis B women after 12 weeks of gestation.	Telbivudine can safely reduce mother-to-child transmission in chronic hepatitis B women after 12 weeks of gestation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299917	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299917	vaccine
BMC genetics	Genetic diversity of Bm86 sequences in Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus ticks from Mexico: analysis of haplotype distribution patterns.	The polymorphism of Bm86 found in the populations included in this study, could account for the poor efficacy of the current Bm86 antigen based commercial vaccine in many regions of Mexico. Our data may contribute towards designing new, highly-specific, Bm86 antigen vaccine candidates against R. microplus circulating in Mexico.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299900	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299900	vaccine
Anaerobe	Inactivated recombinant Escherichia coli as a candidate vaccine against Clostridium perfringens alpha toxin in sheep.	Clostridium perfringens type A is the causative agent of gas gangrene and gastroenteric ("yellow lamb disease") disease in ruminants, with C. perfringens alpha toxin (CPA) being the main virulence factor in the pathogenesis of these illnesses. In the present study, we have developed recombinant Escherichia coli bacterins expressing rCPA and used it to vaccinate rabbits and sheep. Doses of up to 200 μg of rCPA used for inoculation, induced 13.82 IU.mL	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299397	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299397	vaccine
Acta biomaterialia	DNA Vaccination via RALA Nanoparticles in a Microneedle Delivery System Induces a Potent Immune Response against the Endogenous Prostate Cancer Stem Cell Antigen.	Castrate resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) remains a major challenge for healthcare professionals. Immunotherapeutic approaches, including DNA vaccination, hold the potential to harness the host's own immune system to mount a cell-mediated, anti-tumour response, capable of clearing disseminated tumour deposits. These anti-cancer vaccines represent a promising strategy for patients with advanced disease, however, to date DNA vaccines have demonstrated limited efficacy in clinical trials, owing to the lack of a suitable DNA delivery system. This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of a two-tier delivery system incorporating cationic RALA/pDNA nanoparticles (NPs) into a dissolvable microneedle (MN) patch for the purposes of DNA vaccination against prostate cancer. Application of NP-loaded MN patches successfully resulted in endogenous production of the encoded prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA). Furthermore, immunisation with RALA/pPSCA loaded MNs elicited a tumour-specific immune response against TRAMP C-1 tumours ex vivo. Finally, vaccination with RALA/pPSCA loaded MNs demonstrated anti-tumour activity in both prophylactic and therapeutic prostate cancer models in vivo. This is further evidence that this two-tier MN delivery system is a robust platform for prostate cancer DNA vaccination. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: This article advances research regarding the development and utilisation of our unique microneedle (MN) DNA delivery system, which enables penetration through the stratum corneum and deposition within the highly immunogenic skin layers via a dissolvable MN matrix, and facilitates cellular uptake via complexation of pDNA cargo into nanoparticles (NPs) with the RALA delivery peptide. In the current study we report for the first time on using the NP-MN platform to immunise mice with encoded Prostate Stem Cell Antigen (mPSCA) for prostate cancer DNA vaccination. Application of the NP-MN system successfully resulted in local mPSCA expression within the treated ears of mice. Furthermore, immunisation of mice with the NP-MN system induced a tumour-specific cellular immune response, and inhibited the growth of TRAMP C-1 tumours in both prophylactic and therapeutic challenge models. These findings are significant as they represent the first use of the NP-MN system using the PSCA as a target for Prostate Cancer DNA Vaccination.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299353	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299353	vaccine
Infection, genetics and evolution : journal of molecular epidemiology and evolutionary genetics in infectious diseases	Isolation and identification of tiger parvovirus in captive siberian tigers and phylogenetic analysis of VP2 gene.	To better understand the prevalence and molecular epidemiology of parvovirus, this study reports the isolation and characterization of a tiger parvovirus (TPV) named CHJL-Siberian Tiger-01/2017 from a captive Siberian tiger in Jilin Province, China. A phylogenetic tree based on the full-length VP2 nucleotide sequence was constructed using the isolated strain in this study and 56 reference strains. The results showed that all the parvoviruses can be grouped into two large branches: the canine parvovirus (CPV) branch and the feline parvovirus (FPV) branch. FPV strains comprised TPVs, FPVs, blue fox parvoviruses (BFPVs), mink enteritis viruses (MEVs), and raccoon feline parvoviruses (RFPVs), and CPV strains comprised CPVs and raccoon dog parvoviruses (RDPVs). RFPVs are also often very closely related to those sampled from other carnivorous species, and raccoons may represent conduits for parvovirus transmission to other hosts. The results of amino acid changes in the VP2 protein of the isolated strain showed that amino acid Ile 101 was mutated to Thr (I 101T). Taken together, a field TPV strain CHJL-Siberian Tiger-01/2017 was isolated, which may be suitable for future studies on FPV infection, replication and vaccine development. This study provided new important findings about the evolution of parvovirus infection in tigers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31299323	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299323	vaccine
Biochimica et biophysica acta. Molecular basis of disease	The good side of inflammation: Staphylococcus aureus proteins SpA and Sbi contribute to proper abscess formation and wound healing during skin and soft tissue infections.	Staphylococcus aureus is the most prominent cause of skin and soft tissue infections (SSTI) worldwide. Mortality associated with invasive SSTI is a major threat to public health considering the incidence of antibiotic resistant isolates in particular methicillin resistant S. aureus both in the hospital (HA-MRSA) and in the community (CA-MRSA). To overcome the increasing difficulties in the clinical management of SSTI due to MRSA, new prophylactic and therapeutic approaches are urgently needed and a preventive vaccine would be welcome. The rational design of an anti-S. aureus vaccine requires a deep knowledge of the role that the different bacterial virulence factors play according to the type of infection. In the present study, using a set of isogenic deficient mutants and their complemented strains we determined that the staphylococcal surface proteins SpA and Sbi play an important role in the induction of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in the skin during SSTI. SpA and Sbi initiate signaling cascades that lead to the early recruitment of neutrophils, modulate their lifespan in the skin milieu and contribute to proper abscess formation and bacterial eradication. Moreover, the expression of SpA and Sbi appear critical for skin repair and wound healing. Thus, these results indicate that SpA and Sbi can promote immune responses in the skin that are beneficial for the host and therefore, should not be neutralized with vaccine formulations designed to prevent SSTI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31299217	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299217	vaccine
FEMS microbiology letters	Molecular typing of Streptococcus agalactiae isolates of serotype Ia from tilapia in southern China.	Streptococcus agalactiae is an important pathogen of tilapia causing enormous economic losses worldwide. In this study, multi-locus sequence typing indicated that 75 S. agalactiae isolates from tilapia in southern China were of the ST-7, as well as, belonging to serotype Ia confirmed by a multiplex PCR assay. The putative-virulence gene profiles and genetic variation of these strains were determined by three sets of multiplex PCR and multi-virulence locus sequencing typing (MVLST), respectively. Analysis of putative-virulence gene profiles showed that each strain harbored 18 putative-virulence genes but lacked lmb and scpB. Three putative-virulence genes (srr-1, bibA, and fbsA) were further selected for MVLST analysis. Our data showed that the strains had 14 MVLST types (1-14) and clustered in three groups (Groups I-Ⅲ). A period of time between 2013 and 2014 was an important turning point for the differentiation of the putative-virulence genes of S. agalactiae, as type 1 within Groups Ⅱ became the predominant MVLST type. There were significant differences in MVLST types of S. agalactiae isolated from different tilapia farming regions. MVLST assay may improve the discriminatory power and is suitable for understanding the epidemiology of S. agalactiae serotype Ia and screening multivalent vaccine candidate strains.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299078	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299078	vaccine
The Journal of infectious diseases	Assessment of Mumps Virus-Specific Antibodies: Comparison of Plaque Reduction Neutralization Test and Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay Estimates.	The moderate correlation between the anti-mumps antibody measurements obtained by PRNT and ELISA reflects different aspects of the serological response. In the absence of a well-defined protective serological threshold, PRNT provides complementary information on the antibody response, while ELISA remains a critically useful measurement of vaccine immunogenicity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299077	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299077	vaccine
Expert review of vaccines	Vaccines against anthrax based on recombinant protective antigen: problems and solutions.	Anthrax is a dangerous bio-terror agent because 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298973	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298973	vaccine
Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics	Sustained reduction in rotavirus-coded hospitalizations in children aged &lt;5 years after introduction of self-financed rotavirus vaccines in Japan.	This is an extension of our previous study, which evaluated the incidence of seasonal rotavirus gastroenteritis (RVGE) hospitalizations in children aged <5 years from 2009 to 2015 in Japan. Here, we evaluated the incidence of RVGE hospitalizations in children aged <10 years during the rotavirus season (January‒June) from 2009 to 2017 in Japan, before and after the monovalent and pentavalent rotavirus vaccines were introduced in November 2011 and July 2012, using the same health insurance claims database and study methods. In children aged <5 years, the incidence of RVGE hospitalizations greatly declined in 2014 after vaccine introduction, consistent with our previous findings, and the decline was sustained until 2017. However, in children aged ≥5‒<10 years, no apparent trend for a continuous decline in RVGE hospitalizations was observed during the study period. Improved RV vaccination coverage may lead to a further reduction in severe RVGE in Japan.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298962	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298962	vaccine
IUBMB life	Listeriolysin O immunogenetic adjuvant enhanced potency of hepatitis C virus NS3 DNA vaccine.	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major health problem all over the world. Among HCV proteins, nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) is one of the most promising target for anti-HCV therapy and a candidate for vaccine design. DNA vaccine is an efficient approach to stimulate antigen-specific immunity but the main problem with that is less immunogenic efficiency in comparison with traditional vaccines. Several approaches have been applied to enhance the immunogenicity of DNA. Recently, bacteria-derived substances are considered as one of the most attractive adjuvants for vaccines, which among them, Listeriolysin O (LLO) of Listeria monocytogenes is a toxin with an extremely immunogenic feature. We investigated detoxified form of LLO gene as genetic adjuvant to modulate NS3 DNA vaccine potency. Immunogenic truncated NS3 gene sequence of HCV (1095-1380aa) and detoxified LLO gene region (5-441aa) were amplified by PCR and cloned into the pcDNA3.1 plasmid separately. The expression of recombinant proteins (pc-NS3, pLLO) was confirmed in HEK293T cell line by western blotting. BALB/c mice models received three doses of different formula of plasmids in two-week intervals and two weeks after the final immunization, the immune responses were evaluated by specific total antibody level, lymphocyte proliferation, cytotoxicity, and cytokine levels assays. To evaluate in vivo cytotoxic activity, tumor challenge was performed. The recombinant plasmids were successfully expressed in mammalian cell line, and coadministration of pc-NS3 with pLLO induced the highest titer of total IgG against NS3 antigen compared with other controls. Determination of IgG subclasses confirmed the efficient increase in mixed responses with Th1 dominancy. Furthermore, significant levels of cytokines (p < .05) and lymphocyte proliferation responses (p < .05) indicated the superiority of this regimen. The findings may have important implication for LLO gene application as genetic adjuvant in immune response against HCV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298809	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298809	vaccine
Emerging infectious diseases	17DD Yellow Fever Revaccination and Heightened Long-Term Immunity in Populations of Disease-Endemic Areas, Brazil.	We evaluated the duration of neutralizing antibodies and the status of 17DD vaccine-specific T- and B-cell memory following primary and revaccination regimens for yellow fever (YF) in Brazil. We observed progressive decline of plaque-reduction neutralization test (PRNT) seropositivity and of the levels of effector memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, as well as interferon-γ+CD8+ T cells, 10 years after primary vaccination. Revaccination restored PRNT seropositivity as well as the levels of effector memory CD4+, CD8+, and interferon-γ+CD8+ T cells. Moreover, secondary or multiple vaccinations guarantee long-term persistence of PRNT positivity and cell-mediated memory 10 years after booster vaccination. These findings support the relevance of booster doses to heighten the 17DD-YF-specific immune response to guarantee the long-term persistence of memory components. Secondary or multiple vaccinations improved the correlates of protection triggered by 17DD-YF primary vaccination, indicating that booster regimens are needed to achieve efficient immunity in areas with high risk for virus transmission.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298654	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298654	vaccine
Journal of separation science	Rapid annotation and structural characterization of saponins in the active fraction of Albizia julibrissin by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry based on accurate mass database.	The purified active fraction of Albizia julibrissin saponin was proved to be a promising adjuvant candidate for vaccine. In this study, a simple, convenient and practical strategy was established for characterizing the saponins in this purified active fraction. The personal accurate mass database including chemical structure, molecular formula and theoretical mass was first constructed by collecting 110 reported known saponins from genus Albizia species. The raw data was obtained by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry. The potential compounds were extracted from raw data, and matched with the accurate mass databases. A series of saponin compounds were predicted and their chemical structures were characterized by interpreting the tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) data. A total of 29 saponins including 10 new compounds and 5 first found saponins from A. julibrissin were successfully characterized in this purified active fraction using this new strategy. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31298460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298460	vaccine
European review for medical and pharmacological sciences	Suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1) silencing and Hep-2 sensitizing dendritic cell vaccine in laryngocarcinoma immunotherapy.	SOCS1 silencing and Hep-2 sensitizing DC vaccine could induce an effective and specific anti-laryngocarcinoma immune response.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31298347	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298347	vaccine
The Journal of infectious diseases	Early Clearance of Mycobacterium tuberculosis: The INFECT Case Contact Cohort Study in Indonesia.	A quarter of household TB case contacts were early clearers. Protection against M. tuberculosis infection was strongly associated with BCG vaccination. Lower protection from BCG with increasing M. tuberculosis exposure and age can inform vaccine development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298280	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298280	vaccine
The Journal of infectious diseases	Understanding How BCG Vaccine Protects Against Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection: Lessons From Household Contact Studies.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298279	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298279	vaccine
Microbiology spectrum	Immunity to 	Cell-mediated immunity seems to be critical for prevention and resolution of invasive 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298209	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298209	vaccine
Microbiology spectrum	Immunology of 	Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious global public health challenge that results in significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. TB is caused by infection with the bacilli 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298204	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298204	vaccine
The Journal of law, medicine & ethics : a journal of the American Society of Law, Medicine & Ethics	Legal and Policy Responses to Vaccine-Preventable Disease Outbreaks.	Laws and policies are vital tools in preventing outbreaks and limiting the further spread of disease, but they can vary in content and implementation. This manuscript provides insight into challenges in responding to recent vaccine-preventable disease outbreaks by examining legislative changes in California, policy changes on certain university campuses, and the laws implicated in a measles outbreak in Minnesota.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298132	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298132	vaccine
Veterinary dermatology	Canine ischaemic dermatopathy: a retrospective study of 177 cases (2005-2016).	Dos 177 casos, os poodles toys e miniatura, Chihuahuas, Malteses, Yorkshire terriers e Jack Russell terriers estavam significativamente super-representados P < 0.001). Dos 93 casos em que foi possível se obter dados de histórico, a idade mediana na data da biópsia cutânea foi de cinco anos (0,42-13 anos) e o peso mediano foi de 7,3kg (1,32 - 50,3kg). A doença em 45 cães (48,3%) provavelmente estava associada à vacinação. Juventude (P = 0.011) e peso corpóreo mais elevado (P = 0.003) foram positivamente correlacionados com uma maior probabilidade de vacinação. Peso corpóreo <10kg (P = 0.0045) e idade avançada (P = 0.0048) foram significativamente associados a pior evolução. CONCLUSÕES E IMPORTÂNCIA CLÍNICA: Este estudo corrobora com predisposições raciais e identifica potenciais fatores prognósticos. É relevante ressaltar que em metade dos casos, foi considerada improvável a associação com vacinação, demonstrando a necessidade de se investigar outras causas primárias desta enfermidade.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31297888	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297888	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	None	The live attenuated mycobacterial strain BCG, in use as vaccine against tuberculosis, is considered the gold standard for primary therapy of carcinoma 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31297119	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297119	vaccine
Frontiers in physiology	The Use of Tick Salivary Proteins as Novel Therapeutics.	The last three decades of research into tick salivary components have revealed several proteins with important pharmacological and immunological activities. Two primary interests have driven research into tick salivary secretions: the search for suitable pathogen transmission blocking or "anti-tick" vaccine candidates and the search for novel therapeutics derived from tick salivary components. Intensive basic research in the field of tick salivary gland transcriptomics and proteomics has identified several major protein families that play important roles in tick feeding and overcoming vertebrate anti-tick responses. Moreover, these families contain members with unrealized therapeutic potential. Here we review the major tick salivary protein families exploitable in medical applications such as immunomodulation, inhibition of hemostasis and inflammation. Moreover, we discuss the potential, opportunities, and challenges in searching for novel tick-derived drugs.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31297067	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297067	vaccine
Scientific reports	Characterization of two putative Dichelobacter nodosus footrot vaccine antigens identifies the first lysozyme inhibitor in the genus.	The Gram-negative anaerobic bacterium Dichelobacter nodosus (Dn) causes footrot in ruminants, a debilitating and highly contagious disease that results in necrotic hooves and significant economic losses in agriculture. Vaccination with crude whole-cell vaccine mixed with multiple recombinant fimbrial proteins can provide protection during species-specific outbreaks, but subunit vaccines containing broadly cross-protective antigens are desirable. We have investigated two D. nodosus candidate vaccine antigens. Macrophage Infectivity Potentiator Dn-MIP (DNO_0012, DNO_RS00050) and Adhesin Complex Protein Dn-ACP (DNO_0725, DNO_RS06795) are highly conserved amongst ~170 D. nodosus isolates in the https://pubmlst.org/dnodosus/ database. We describe the presence of two homologous ACP domains in Dn-ACP with potent C-type lysozyme inhibitor function, and homology of Dn-MIP to other putative cell-surface and membrane-anchored MIP virulence factors. Immunization of mice with recombinant proteins with a variety of adjuvants induced antibodies that recognised both proteins in D. nodosus. Notably, immunization with fimbrial-whole-cell Footvax vaccine induced anti-Dn-ACP and anti-Dn-MIP antibodies. Although all adjuvants induced high titre antibody responses, only antisera to rDn-ACP-QuilA and rDn-ACP-Al(OH)	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296905	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296905	vaccine
Science (New York, N.Y.)	Enhanced CAR-T cell activity against solid tumors by vaccine boosting through the chimeric receptor.	Chimeric antigen receptor-T cell (CAR-T) therapy has been effective in the treatment of hematologic malignancies, but it has shown limited efficacy against solid tumors. Here we demonstrate an approach to enhancing CAR-T function in solid tumors by directly vaccine-boosting donor cells through their chimeric receptor in vivo. We designed amphiphile CAR-T ligands (amph-ligands) that, upon injection, trafficked to lymph nodes and decorated the surfaces of antigen-presenting cells, thereby priming CAR-Ts in the native lymph node microenvironment. Amph-ligand boosting triggered massive CAR-T expansion, increased donor cell polyfunctionality, and enhanced antitumor efficacy in multiple immunocompetent mouse tumor models. We demonstrate two approaches to generalizing this strategy to any chimeric antigen receptor, enabling this simple non-human leukocyte antigen-restricted approach to enhanced CAR-T functionality to be applied to existing CAR-T designs.	2019	eng	Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural	United States	31296767	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296767	vaccine
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Antibody-dependent enhancement of influenza disease promoted by increase in hemagglutinin stem flexibility and virus fusion kinetics.	Several next-generation (universal) influenza vaccines and broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) are in clinical development. Some of these mediate inhibitions of virus replication at the postentry stage or use Fc-dependent mechanisms. Nonneutralizing antibodies have the potential to mediate enhancement of viral infection or disease. In the current study, two monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) 72/8 and 69/1, enhanced respiratory disease (ERD) in mice following H3N2 virus challenge by demonstrating increased lung pathology and changes in lung cytokine/chemokine levels. MAb 78/2 caused changes in the lung viral loads in a dose-dependent manner. Both MAbs increased HA sensitivity to trypsin cleavage at a higher pH range, suggesting MAb-induced conformational changes. pHrodo-labeled virus particles' entry and residence time in the endocytic compartment were tracked during infection of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells. Both MAbs reduced H3N2 virus residence time in the endocytic pathway, suggesting faster virus fusion kinetics. Structurally, 78/2 and 69/1 Fabs bound the globular head or base of the head domain of influenza hemagglutinin (HA), respectively, and induced destabilization of the HA stem domain. Together, this study describes Mab-induced destabilization of the influenza HA stem domain, faster kinetics of influenza virus fusion, and ERD in vivo. The in vivo animal model and in vitro assays described could augment preclinical safety evaluation of antibodies and next-generation influenza vaccines that generate antibodies which do not block influenza virus-receptor interaction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296560	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296560	vaccine
Primary care diabetes	Impact of diabetes education teams in primary care on processes of care indicators.	Onsite education teams in primary care settings can potentially improve diabetes management as shown in two process of care indicators: medical visits and foot exams. The results support the benefits of having education teams in primary care settings to increase adherence to practice guidelines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296470	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296470	vaccine
Vaccine	A novel method for performing antigenic vaccine matching for foot-and-mouth disease in absence of the homologous virus.	Foot-and-mouth-disease (FMD) is a highly contagious transboundary animal disease that has negative consequences on regional and international trade. Vaccination is an important approach for FMD control and an essential consideration is the degree of cross-protection conferred by the vaccine against currently circulating field viruses. The objective of this study was to evaluate a new vaccine matching technique that does not require knowledge concerning the homologous vaccine virus. As a proof of concept, the vaccine-match was assessed for 41 FMD field viruses isolated from southern Africa over a 25-year period. A diverse group of 20 SAT1 and 21 SAT2 FMDV isolates collected from cattle and wildlife during 1991-2015 were selected for this study. Virus neutralization tests were performed against two sets of pooled sera for each serotype: vaccinated cattle sera (4-16 weeks post-vaccination) and convalescent cattle sera (3 weeks post-experimental challenge). Novel r	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31296377	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296377	vaccine
Vaccine	Perceptions of politicization and HPV vaccine policy support.	How the certainty of a body of evidence gets communicated to the public may influence the policy process for a critical cancer prevention intervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31296376	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296376	vaccine
Vaccine	Immunisation of migrants in EU/EEA countries: Policies and practices.	In recent years various EU/EEA countries have experienced an influx of migrants from low and middle-income countries. In 2018, the "Vaccine European New Integrated Collaboration Effort (VENICE)" survey group conducted a survey among 30 EU/EEA countries to investigate immunisation policies and practices targeting irregular migrants, refugees and asylum seekers (later called "migrants" in this report). Twenty-nine countries participated in the survey. Twenty-eight countries reported having national policies targeting children/adolescent and adult migrants, however vaccinations offered to adult migrants are limited to specific conditions in seven countries. All the vaccinations included in the National Immunisation Programme (NIP) are offered to children/adolescents in 27/28 countries and to adults in 13/28 countries. In the 15 countries offering only certain vaccinations to adults, priority is given to diphtheria-tetanus, measles-mumps-rubella and polio vaccinations. Information about the vaccines given to child/adolescent migrants is recorded in 22 countries and to adult migrants in 19 countries with a large variation in recording methods found across countries. Individual and aggregated data are reportedly not shared with other centres/institutions in 13 and 15 countries, respectively. Twenty countries reported not collecting data on vaccination uptake among migrants; only three countries have these data at the national level. Procedures to guarantee migrants' access to vaccinations at the community level are available in 13 countries. In conclusion, although diversified, strategies for migrant vaccination are in place in all countries except for one, and the strategies are generally in line with international recommendations. Efforts are needed to strengthen partnerships and implement initiatives across countries of origin, transit and destination to develop and better share documentation in order to guarantee a completion of vaccination series and to avoid unnecessary re-vaccination. Development of migrant-friendly strategies to facilitate migrants' access to vaccination and collection of vaccination uptake data among migrants is needed to meet existing gaps.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31296374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296374	vaccine
Journal of the American Pharmacists Association : JAPhA	Preventing shoulder injury related to vaccine administration.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296322	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296322	vaccine
Trials	Enrolling study personnel in Ebola vaccine trials: from guidelines to practice in a non-epidemic context.	In a non-epidemic context, ethical and methodological considerations limit the collective benefit of enrolling site staff in a vaccine trial. These considerations do not apply to community mobilizers, whose potential enrollment should be considered as long as they meet the inclusion criteria and they are not exposed to any form of coercion.	2019	eng	Letter	England	31296253	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296253	vaccine
Parasites & vectors	Comparative analysis of transcriptional profiles of Schistosoma japonicum adult worms derived from primary-infected and re-infected water buffaloes.	To our knowledge, our results present the first large-scale transcriptional expression study identifying the differences between adult S. japonicum worms from primary-infected and re-infected water buffaloes, and particularly emphasize differential expression that may affect the survival and growth of worms in re-infected water buffalo. This will provide new insight into screening for anti-schistosome targets and vaccine candidates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296252	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296252	vaccine
Viruses	Measles Vaccine Virus RNA in Children More Than 100 Days after Vaccination.	Measles vaccines have been in use since the 1960s with excellent safety and effectiveness profiles. Limited data are available on detection of measles vaccine virus (MeVV) RNA in human subjects following vaccination. Available evidence suggests MeVV RNA can be identified up to 14 days after vaccination, with detection beyond this rare. In routine diagnostic testing, we used two real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-rPCR) assays targeting M and F genes to identify measles virus (MeV) and MeVV RNA. Confirmatory testing was performed with an N gene RT-rPCR, followed by sequence confirmation of RT-rPCR positives by semi-nested conventional RT-PCR assays targeting portions of the N, H, and L genes. We report detection and confirmation of MeVV RNA from the respiratory tract of 11 children between 100 and 800 days after most recent receipt of measles-containing vaccine. These novel findings emphasize the importance of genotyping all MeV detections and highlight the need for further work to assess whether persistent MeVV RNA represents viable virus and if transmission to close contacts can occur.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31295941	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295941	vaccine
Viruses	Immune Responses in the Eye-Associated Lymphoid Tissues of Chickens after Ocular Inoculation with Vaccine and Virulent Strains of the Respiratory Infectious Laryngotracheitis Virus (ILTV).	Infectious laryngotracheitis (ILT) is an acute respiratory disease of poultry caused by infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV). Control of the disease with live attenuated vaccines administered via eye drop build upon immune responses generated by the eye-associated lymphoid tissues. The aim of this study was to assess cytokine and lymphocyte changes in the conjunctiva-associated lymphoid tissues (CALT) and Harderian gland (HG) stimulated by the ocular inoculation of the ILTV chicken embryo origin (CEO) vaccine strain and virulent strain 63140. This study offers strong evidence to support the roles that the CALT and HG play in the development of protective ILTV immune responses. It supports the premise that ILTV-mediated immunomodulation favors the B cell response over those of T cells. Further, it provides evidence that expansions of CD8α	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31295877	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295877	vaccine
Viruses	Emergence of a Novel Reassortant Strain of Bluetongue Serotype 6 in Israel, 2017: Clinical Manifestations of the Disease and Molecular Characterization.	Reassortment contributes to the evolution of RNA viruses with segmented genomes, including Bluetongue virus (BTV). Recently, co-circulation of natural and vaccine BTV variants in Europe, and their ensuing reassortment, were proposed to promote appearance of novel European BTV strains, with potential implications for pathogenicity, spread and vaccination policies. Similarly, the geographical features of the Mediterranean basin, which spans over portions of three continents, may facilitate the appearance of clinically relevant reassortants via co-circulation of BTV strains of African, Asian and European origins. In August-October 2017, BTV serotype 6 (BTV-6) was identified in young animals exhibiting classical clinical signs of Bluetongue (BT) at Israeli sheep and cattle farms. Sequencing and pairwise analysis of this Israeli BTV-6 isolate revealed the closest sequence homology of its serotype-defining Segment 2 was with that of South African reference BTV-6 strain 5011 (93.88% identity). In contrast, the other viral segments showed highest homology (97.0%-99.47% identity) with BTV-3, -4 and -9 of Mediterranean and African origins. Specifically, four viral segments were nearly identical (99.13%-99.47%), with Tunisian and Italian BTV-3 strains (TUN2016 and SAD2018, correspondingly). Together, our data suggest that Mediterranean co-circulation and reassortment of BTV-3 and BTV-6 drove the emergence of a novel and virulent BTV-6 strain.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31295819	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295819	vaccine
Journal of hepatology	Elimination of Hepatitis C Virus has limited impact on the functional and mitochondrial impairment of HCV-specific CD8+ T cell responses.	IFN-free DAAs therapy results in cure of HCV in almost all treated chronic hepatitis C patients. However, the impacts of HCV cure on immune responses remain arguable. The question if immune responses towards the virus recover is important in case of re-exposure to HCV or for the resolution of extrahepatic manifestations. The main finding of our study was that HCV-specific T cells remain functionally impaired despite HCV clearance. This finding could explain the fact that HCV cure does not lead to protective immunity and that reinfections have frequently been observed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31295532	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295532	vaccine
Immunology letters	Evaluation of aqueous extracts of Cistanche deserticola as a polysaccharide adjuvant for seasonal influenza vaccine in young adult mice.	Adjuvants can improve the efficacy of influenza vaccines and are still a hot spot in the study and development of influenza vaccines. In this report, the effects of aqueous extracts of Cistanche deserticola (AECD) as a polysaccharide adjuvant on seasonal influenza vaccines (IVV) were explored. The experimental data of anti-IVV IgG	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31295429	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295429	vaccine
Cell host & microbe	The Impact of HIV-1 Drug Escape on the Global Treatment Landscape.	The rising prevalence of HIV drug resistance (HIVDR) could threaten gains made in combating the HIV epidemic and compromise the 90-90-90 target proposed by United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) to have achieved virological suppression in 90% of all persons receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) by the year 2020. HIVDR has implications for the persistence of HIV, the selection of current and future ART drug regimens, and strategies of vaccine and cure development. Focusing on drug classes that are in clinical use, this Review critically summarizes what is known about the mechanisms the virus utilizes to escape drug control. Armed with this knowledge, strategies to limit the expansion of HIVDR are proposed.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31295424	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295424	vaccine
Canadian journal of microbiology	The evolving nature of<i> Bordetella pertussis</i> in Ontario, Canada, 2009-2017: strains with shifting genotypes and pertactin-deficiency.	Impact of the evolving nature of B. pertussis on disease epidemiology requires further longitudinal studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31295416	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295416	vaccine
PloS one	Genomic surveillance of invasive meningococcal disease in the Czech Republic, 2015-2017.	The genomic surveillance of IMD in the Czech Republic provides data needed to update immunisation guidelines for this disease. WGS showed a higher discrimination power and provided more accurate data on molecular characteristics and genetic relationships among invasive N. meningitidis isolates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295279	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295279	vaccine
Sexually transmitted diseases	Excess Cancer Cases and Medical Costs Due to Suboptimal Human Papillomavirus Vaccination Coverage in California.	Increased HPV vaccination coverage in California is needed to reduce economic and health burdens associated with cancers caused by HPV infection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295221	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295221	vaccine
Journal of wildlife diseases	Rabies Outbreak in Captive Big Brown Bats (	An outbreak of rabies occurred in a captive colony of wild-caught big brown bats (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295082	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295082	vaccine
Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics	Associations between HPV vaccination among women and their 11-14-year-old children.	The human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine has been available in the United States for over a decade. We sought to examine the associations between self-reported receipt of HPV vaccination among women and their 11-14-year-old children in 27 low-coverage states. Among the 3,261 mothers we surveyed, 18% reported receiving ≥1 dose of HPV vaccine. A significantly higher proportion of vaccinated women reported vaccination of their children compared to unvaccinated women (83% vs. 56%, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295048	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295048	vaccine
Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics	Hepatitis B Vaccine birth dose in India: Time to reconsider.	Viral hepatitis is increasingly being recognized as a public health problem in India with 96% of all hepatitis mortality attributed to hepatitis B and C combined. It has been recognized that hepatitis B vaccination has resulted in substantial reductions in the incidence of acute and chronic hepatitis B infections and carriage. Although coverage of third-dose hepatitis B vaccine has reached 86%, the birth-dose coverage was only 45% in 2015 despite high rates of institutional deliveries (79%). With the target set at 90% coverage of birth-dose hepatitis B vaccine by 2030, it is imperative to immediately incorporate WHO/SAGE recommendations of administering the hepatitis B vaccine birth dose until 7 days into the National Immunization Schedule (NIS).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295047	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295047	vaccine
JAMA ophthalmology	Bilateral Mydriasis and Serous Retinal Detachments Associated With Ipilimumab and 6-Melanoma Helper Peptide Vaccine for Cutaneous Melanoma.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294773	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294773	vaccine
Parasite (Paris, France)	Molecular cloning and transcriptional and functional analysis of glycogen synthase kinase-3β in Haemaphysalis longicornis (Acari, Ixodidae).	Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3), which belongs to the serine/threonine kinase family, regulates glycogen metabolism, Wnt signaling, hormonal regulation, and embryonic development in many eukaryotes. Here, we cloned a complete open reading frame (ORF) of glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK-3β) from Haemaphysalis longicornis and characterized its transcriptional and functional status. The ORF of GSK-3β possesses 1242 nucleotides encoding a mature protein of 413 amino acid residues. GSK-3β nucleotide and protein sequences are highly conserved among different vertebrate and invertebrate animals, with identity between 47.8-100% and 63.2-88.7%, respectively. Sequence comparison showed one signature domain between the residues of 51 and 335 amino acids, which was identified as a protein kinase (serine/threonine). RT-PCR showed GSK-3β mRNA present in all developmental stages of H. longicornis. Interestingly, a higher transcript level was observed in nymph and 7-day-old eggs compared with others by real-time PCR, indicating a role of GSK-3β in the early stages of life. The functional status of GSK-3β was characterized by RNA interference (RNAi) and caused significant (p < 0.05) reduction in feeding and reproduction, as well as an abnormality in eggs and hatching. Taken together, our results suggest that GSK-3β may be an important candidate for a multiple antigen vaccine for controlling the tick population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31294687	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294687	vaccine
Macromolecular rapid communications	One-Pot, Multicomponent Strategy for Designing Lymphoseek-Inspired Hetero-Glycoadjuvant@AuNPs.	Searching for vaccines (antigen and adjuvant) with easy preparation and strong T-cell response are crucial for antitumor immunity. In this work, to design lymphoseek-inspired vaccine possessing the abilities of promoting vaccine internalization and enhancing CD8	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31294497	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294497	vaccine
Open forum infectious diseases	Antibody Reactivity to Merozoite Antigens in Ghanaian Adults Correlates With Growth Inhibitory Activity Against 	Growth inhibitory activity was significantly associated with breadth of antibody reactivity to merozoite antigens, encouraging the prospect of a multicomponent blood-stage vaccine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294045	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294045	vaccine
Frontiers in pediatrics	Examining the Complex Relationship Between Tuberculosis and Other Infectious Diseases in Children.	Millions of children are exposed to tuberculosis (TB) each year, many of which become infected with 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31294001	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294001	vaccine
Journal of clinical and translational hepatology	Hepatitis B Vaccine and Immunoglobulin: Key Concepts.	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) immunization is safe and has been accepted worldwide as a routine practice. The target of such vaccination is to induce the immune response in the host, resulting in the prevention of replication of HBV. There are several immunological and clinical factors which determine the clinical efficacy and safety of the HBV vaccine. In this article we have highlighted the response of the host immune system to HBV vaccination (immunogenicity), efficacy, and safety of the vaccine, issues with booster dosing, paths of development (preclinical and clinical) of the HBV vaccine, novel and upcoming strategies for improvement of HBV vaccination, and the concept of therapeutic HBV vaccination. The different aspects and regulatory recommendations pertaining to HBV vaccine development are also discussed. The new strategies for improvement of HBV vaccination include pre-S1 and pre-S2 portions of the HBV surface antigen, increasing the antigen dose, accelerated vaccination schedules, alternative vaccination route, use of adjuvants like immunostimulatory DNA sequences, etc. Therapeutic vaccination is being explored for initiation of a multifunctional and multispecific T cell response against the major HBV antigens and also effective activation of humoral immunity for viral control.	2019	eng	Review	China	31293917	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293917	vaccine
PeerJ	Genome sequencing and analysis of 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31293824	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293824	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	None	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293599	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293599	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	Granzyme A Stimulates pDCs to Promote Adaptive Immunity via Induction of Type I IFN.	Granzyme A (GzmA), together with perforin, are well-known for their cytotoxic activity against tumor or virus-infected cells. In addition to this cytotoxic function, GzmA stimulates several immune cell types and induces inflammation in the absence of perforin, however, its effect on the dendritic cell (DC) is unknown. In the current study, we showed that recombinant GzmA induced the phenotypic maturation of plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) and conventional DCs (cDCs), but not their apoptosis. Particularly, GzmA made pDCs more functional, thus leading to production of type I interferon (IFN) via the TLR9-MyD88 pathway. We also demonstrated that GzmA binds TLR9 and co-localizes with it in endosomes. When co-administered with antigen, GzmA acted as a powerful adjuvant for eliciting antigen-specific cytotoxic CD8	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293597	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293597	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	A Modified mRNA Vaccine Targeting Immunodominant NS Epitopes Protects Against Dengue Virus Infection in HLA Class I Transgenic Mice.	Dengue virus (DENV) induces strong T and B cell responses upon infection. Hence, it is difficult to determine the contribution of cell-mediated immunity alone in the long lasting protection against DENV infection and disease. Numerous CD4+ and CD8+ T cell epitopes have been identified, mainly in the non-structural proteins of DENV. Taking into account the immunogenicity and peptide sequence conservation among the different DENV serotypes, a minimal DENV antigen, called DENV1-NS, has been designed. This antigen is enriched in conserved and highly antigenic epitopes located in the NS3, NS4B, and NS5 regions of DENV1. To evaluate the ability of the DENV1-NS poly-epitope to express the antigenic peptides in the context of different HLA class I molecules, we established its 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293584	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293584	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	Determinants for Neoantigen Identification.	All tumors accumulate genetic alterations, some of which can give rise to mutated, non-self peptides presented by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules and elicit T-cell responses. These immunogenic mutated peptides, or neoantigens, are foreign in nature and display exquisite tumor specificity. The correlative evidence suggesting they play an important role in the effectiveness of various cancer immunotherapies has triggered the development of vaccines and adoptive T-cell therapies targeting them. However, the systematic identification of personalized neoantigens in cancer patients, a critical requisite for the success of these therapies, remains challenging. A growing amount of evidence supports that only a small fraction of all tumor somatic non-synonymous mutations (NSM) identified represent 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31293573	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293573	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	Subcutaneous Immunization of Dogs With 	The 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293571	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293571	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	Peptide Antiviral Strategies as an Alternative to Treat Lower Respiratory Viral Infections.	Lower respiratory infection caused by human pathogens such as influenza and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a significant healthcare burden that must be addressed. The preferred options to achieve this goal are usually to develop vaccines for prophylaxis and to develop antiviral small molecules to treat infected patients with convenient, orally administrable drugs. However, developing a vaccine against RSV poses special challenges with the diminished immune system of infants and the elderly, and finding a universal flu vaccine is difficult because the product must target a large array of viral strains. On the other hand, the use of small-molecule antivirals can result in the emergence of resistant viruses as it has well-been reported for HIV, influenza, and hepatitis C virus (HCV). This paper reviews peptide antiviral strategies as an alternative to address these challenges. The discovery of influenza and RSV peptidic fusion inhibitors will be discussed and compared to small molecules in view of escape mutations. The importance of constraining peptides into macrocycles to improve both their inhibitory activity and pharmacological properties will be highlighted.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31293570	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293570	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	Immunization With 	Liposomes have been long considered as a vaccine delivery system but this technology remains to be fully utilized. Here, we describe a novel liposome-based subunit vaccine formulation for tuberculosis (TB) based on phosphatidylserine encapsulating two prominent TB antigens, Ag85B, and ESAT-6. We show that the resulting liposomes (Lipo-AE) are stable upon storage and can be readily taken up by antigen presenting cells and that their antigenic cargo is delivered and processed within endosomal cell compartments. The Lipo-AE vaccine formulation combined with the PolyIC adjuvant induced a mixed Th1/Th17-Th2 immune response to Ag85B but only a weak response to ESAT-6. An immunization regimen based on systemic delivery followed by mucosal boost with Lipo-AE resulted in the accumulation of resident memory T cells in the lungs. Most importantly though, when Lipo-AE vaccine candidate was administered to BCG-immunized mice subsequently challenged with low dose aerosol 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293568	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293568	vaccine
Frontiers in immunology	Duration of Humoral and Cellular Immunity 8 Years After Administration of Reduced Doses of the 17DD-Yellow Fever Vaccine.	The present study aims to determine whether 17DD-YF-specific humoral and cellular immunological memory is maintained 8-years after primary vaccination with subdoses (10,447IU;3,013IU;587IU;158IU;31IU). For this purpose, this follow-up study was carried out in a subset of volunteers (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293563	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293563	vaccine
World journal of gastroenterology	Immunotherapy for hepatocellular carcinoma: Current and future.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) arises on the background of chronic liver disease. Despite the development of effective anti-viral therapeutics HCC is continuing to rise, in part driven by the epidemic of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Many patients present with advanced disease out with the criteria for transplant, resection or even locoregional therapy. Currently available therapeutics for HCC are effective in a small minority of individuals. However, there has been a major global interest in immunotherapies for cancer and although HCC has lagged behind other cancers, great opportunities now exist for treating HCC with newer and more sophisticated agents. Whilst checkpoint inhibitors are at the forefront of this revolution, other therapeutics such as inhibitory cytokine blockade, oncolytic viruses, adoptive cellular therapies and vaccines are emerging. Broadly these may be categorized as either boosting existing immune response or stimulating de novo immune response. Although some of these agents have shown promising results as monotherapy in early phase trials it may well be that their future role will be as combination therapy, either in combination with one another or in combination with treatment modalities such as locoregional therapy. Together these agents are likely to generate new and exciting opportunities for treating HCC, which are summarized in this review.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31293335	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293335	vaccine
Expert review of clinical immunology	Neonatal vaccine effectiveness and the role of adjuvants.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31293189	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293189	vaccine
Transboundary and emerging diseases	A novel H7N3 reassortant originating from the zoonotic H7N9 highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses that has adapted to ducks.	The first human case of zoonotic H7N9 avian influenza virus (AIV) infection was reported in March 2013 in China. This virus continues to circulate in poultry in China while mutating to highly pathogenic AIVs (HPAIVs). Through monitoring at airports in Japan, a novel H7N3 reassortant of the zoonotic H7N9 HPAIVs, A/duck/Japan/AQ-HE30-1/2018 (HE30-1), was detected in a poultry meat product illegally brought by a passenger from China into Japan. We analyzed the genetic, pathogenic, and antigenic characteristics of HE30-1 by comparing it with previous zoonotic H7N9 AIVs and their reassortants. Phylogenetic analysis of the entire HE30-1 genomic sequence revealed that it comprised at least three different sources; the HA (H7), PB1, PA, NP, M, and NS segments of HE30-1 were directly derived from H7N9 AIVs, whereas the NA (N3) and PB2 segments of HE30-1 were unrelated to zoonotic H7N9. Experimental infection revealed that HE30-1 was lethal in chickens but not in domestic or mallard ducks. HE30-1 was shed from and replicated in domestic and mallard ducks and chickens, whereas previous zoonotic H7N9 AIVs have not adapted well to ducks. This finding suggests the possibility that HE30-1 may disseminate to remote area by wild bird migration once it establishes in wild bird population. A hemagglutination-inhibition assay indicated that antigenic drift has occurred among the reassortants of zoonotic H7N9 AIVs; HE30-1 showed similar antigenicity to some of those H7N9 AIVs, suggesting it might be prevented by the H5/H7 inactivated vaccine that was introduced in China in 2017. Our study reports the emergence of a new reassortant of zoonotic H7N9 AIVs with novel viral characteristics and warns of the challenge we still face to control the zoonotic H7N9 AIVs and their reassortants. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31293102	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293102	vaccine
Scientific reports	Outbreak strain characterisation and pharyngeal carriage detection following a protracted group B meningococcal outbreak in adolescents in South-West England.	Between April 2016 and September 2017, four cases of group B meningococcal disease were reported among sixth-form college students in Bristol, UK. Culture and non-culture whole genome sequencing was utilised and demonstrated that the four genomes of the responsible ST-41 strains clustered closely on a sub-lineage of ST-41/44 clonal complex. The outbreak resulted in two fatalities. A distinct social group associated with one of the cases was selected for vaccination with 4CMenB and pharyngeal swabbing. In vitro culturing, multiple real-time PCR assays (sodC, ctrA and siaD	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292501	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292501	vaccine
Scientific reports	Phosphoproteomics analysis of male and female Schistosoma mekongi adult worms.	Schistosoma mekongi is one of the major causative agents of human schistosomiasis in Southeast Asia. Praziquantel is now the only drug available for treatment and there are serious concerns about parasite resistance to it. Therefore, a dataset of schistosome targets is necessary for drug development. Phosphorylation regulates signalling pathways to control cellular processes that are important for the parasite's growth and reproduction. Inhibition of key phosphoproteins may reduce the severity of schistosomiasis. In this research, we studied the phosphoproteomes of S. mekongi male and female adult worms by using computational and experimental approaches. Using a phosphoproteomics approach, we determined that 88 and 44 phosphoproteins were male- and female-biased, respectively. Immunohistochemistry using anti-phosphoserine antibodies demonstrated phosphorylation on the tegument and muscle of male S. mekongi worms and on the vitelline gland and gastrointestinal tract of female worms. This research revealed S. mekongi sex-dependent phosphoproteins. Our findings provide a better understanding of the role of phosphorylation in S. mekongi and could be integrated with information from other Schistosoma species to facilitate drug and vaccine development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292487	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292487	vaccine
Journal of virology	LAP	Transforming Growth Factor β (TGFβ) has been shown to play a role in immunity towards different pathogens 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31292251	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292251	vaccine
 	Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors in Regulation of Pathology of Cerebrovascular Disorders	Cerebrovascular disorders including ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage are among the major clinical concerns for which effective therapies are poorly available. Accumulating lines of evidence indicate that drugs acting on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) may provide therapeutic effects on these disorders, based on their neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory actions. For example, the cholinergic neurotransmission in the central nervous system via nAChRs may function as an endogenous neuroprotective system that prevents pathogenic events associated with ischemic stroke. On the other hand, exogenous administration of nicotine or nAChR agonists to experimental models of ischemic stroke has been reported to produce conflicting results (either protective or deleterious), which may be largely dependent on the different regiments of drug treatments. With regard to intracerebral hemorrhage, preclinical findings suggest that post-treatment with nAChR agonists is effective in alleviating brain tissue damage and neurological outcome. The beneficial actions of nAChR agonist have also been reported for an experimental model of subarachnoid hemorrhage, which should be confirmed by further investigations. Although smoking has been considered as an important risk factor for stroke episodes, specific targeting of the central nAChRs may prove to be an effective and novel strategy for the treatment of diverse types of cerebrovascular disorders.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314414	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314414	smoking
 	Removal of Blood Amyloid As a Therapeutic Strategy for Alzheimer’s Disease: The Influence of Smoking and Nicotine	Accumulation of amyloid β protein (Aβ) in the brain causes cognitive impairment in Alzheimer’s disease (AD). The nature of the relationship between smoking and AD or dementia has been controversial. However, a recent meta-analysis revealed that smoking is a risk factor for AD. With regard to nicotinic acetylcholinergic receptors (nAChRs), both AD and control patients that smoke have been reported to show an increase in 	2019	eng	Review	 	31314409	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314409	smoking
 	 	As America's most populous state goes, so goes the nation. And within that state, the 38 counties comprising South Texas--a highly populated, largely Hispanic area characterized by high uninsured rates and low numbers of health care providers--are emblematic of nationwide crises in public health. The South Texas Health Status Review: A Health Disparities Roadmap brings health care disparities to light in instructive detail. Over thirty key health conditions and risk factors, such as breast cancer, diabetes, obesity, tuberculosis, smoking and alcohol use, lead exposure, birth defects, and homicide rates, are analyzed by age, sex, race/ethnicity, and location (urban or rural), and the results compared with the rest of Texas and the nation as a whole. A section on conclusions and recommendations outlines factors contributing to these conditions and offers suggestions for improvement. These important data should stimulate further population studies and provide impetus for targeted public health interventions and community outreach programs to reduce health inequities and advance care access in the state and the U.S. at large. Major health issues covered in the report include: • Communicable diseases • Cancer incidence and mortality • Maternal and child health • Chronic diseases • Behavioral risk factors in adults • Environmental health issues • Suicide, homicide, and vehicular mortality. The South Texas Health Status Review contains valuable lessons for researchers in health promotion and health disparities, as well as community health professionals. Policymakers involved in reducing health disparities will find it especially useful.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314218	smoking
Molecular and cellular endocrinology	Nicotine induces insulin resistance via downregulation of Nrf2 in cardiomyocyte.	Clinical studies have demonstrated that cigarette smoking is strongly associated with insulin resistance and heart disease. Nicotine is considered the primary toxin constituent associated with smoking. However, the distinct molecular mechanism of nicotine-induced cardiac dysfunction remains unclear. Cardiomyocytes with nicotine-induced insulin resistance are characterized by decreased glucose uptake, as measured by 2-[N-(7-Nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl)amino]-2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-NBDG), a fluorescent derivative of glucose, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Immunoblotting was used to evaluate the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K, p85, Y607). We determined the impact of nicotine on insulin resistance and Nrf2, phospho-ERK and phospho-PI3K expression in the myocardial tissue of a mouse model. Nicotine increased ROS production and depressed insulin-induced glucose uptake in cardiomyocytes. Pretreatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), an antioxidant, reversed nicotine-inhibited glucose uptake induced by insulin. Nicotine exposure directly inhibited Nrf2 and increased ERK phosphorylation in cardiomyocytes, which were obstructed by NAC. Further exploration of signaling cascades revealed nicotine-induced ROS involved in inhibiting PI3K/Nrf2 and activating ERK in cardiomyocytes. Moreover, the mouse model treated with nicotine showed glucose intolerance and impaired insulin tolerance accompanied by inhibited PI3K/Nrf2 and increased ERK in myocardial tissues. Thus, nicotine induces insulin resistance via the downregulation of Nrf2 activity in cardiomyocytes, which is a potential mechanism of the pharmacological effects of nicotine. This study identified potential therapeutic targets against nicotine-related cardiovascular diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31315024	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315024	smoking
Sao Paulo medical journal = Revista paulista de medicina	Association between consumption of ultra-processed foods and serum C-reactive protein levels: cross-sectional results from the ELSA-Brasil study.	Our findings suggest that the positive association of ultra-processed food consumption with CRP levels among women seems to be mediated by the presence of adiposity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314878	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314878	smoking
PloS one	Epidemiology of limb reduction defects as registered in the Medical Birth Registry of Norway, 1970-2016: Population based study.	The MBRN now has information on LRD coded by ICD-10 from 1970, but information is not specific enough to use other recommended classification systems. Collecting radiographic descriptions and/or more details from hospital records would improve the quality of the registry data. Taking folate supplements before/during pregnancy may reduce the risk of offspring LRD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314783	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314783	smoking
Acta cardiologica	Analysis of physical exercise in cardiac patients following cardiovascular rehabilitation.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314680	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314680	smoking
Journal of alternative and complementary medicine (New York, N.Y.)	Feasibility and Acceptability of Mindfulness-Based Group Visits for Smoking Cessation in Low-Socioeconomic Status and Minority Smokers with Cancer.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314565	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314565	smoking
DNA and cell biology	Association Between Two Polymorphisms in the Promoter Region of miR-143/miR-145 and the Susceptibility of Lung Cancer in Northeast Chinese Nonsmoking Females.	Lung cancer is known to cause high mortality and morbidity. The study aimed to explore the association between rs3733845 and rs3733846 polymorphisms in the promoter region of miR-143/145 and the risk of lung cancer among 575 nonsmoking cases and 575 cancer-free controls in a Chinese female population. We genotyped two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the promoter region of miR-143/145 in 575 cases and 575 controls using TaqMan allelic discrimination method. Logistic regression analysis was conducted to assess the association between polymorphisms in the promoter of miR-143/miR-145 and risk of lung cancer females. Crossover analysis was used to explore the interaction between the two SNPs and environmental risk factors (cooking oil fume exposure and passive smoking exposure). The results showed that both rs3733845 and rs3733846 polymorphisms were associated with an increased lung adenocarcinoma risk in dominant model (adjusted odds ratio [OR] = 1.329, 95% confidence intervals [CIs] = 1.026-1.723, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314552	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314552	smoking
Journal of diabetes investigation	Factors associated with diabetic polyneuropathy-related sensory symptoms and signs in patients with polyneuropathy: a cross-sectional Japanese study using a non-linear model.	Some modifiable factors assessed in the large survey database may be associated with DPN-related sensory symptoms/signs, namely, smoking, alcohol use, and SBP. Maintaining SBP below 130 mmHg was associated with lower odds of DPN-related sensory symptoms/signs in patients with DPN. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31314173	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314173	smoking
Internal medicine journal	Complementary medicine use and its cost in Australians with type 2 diabetes: The Fremantle Diabetes Study Phase II.	CM use in type 2 diabetes is both common and costly. Healthcare professionals should consider discussing safe and cost-effective use of CM with their patients with type 2 diabetes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31314167	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314167	smoking
Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology	Multiple patient and disease characteristics associate with the presence and type of pain in chronic pancreatitis.	Multiple patient and disease characteristics, including patterns of smoking and alcohol consumption, associate with the presence and type of pain in patients with CP.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31314128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314128	smoking
Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics	Review article: the incidence and risk factors for irritable bowel syndrome in population-based studies.	Incidence rates were generally lower than previous estimates reflecting physician-diagnosed IBS. The results highlight the importance of other medical and psychosocial problems in the onset of IBS in addition to prior gastrointestinal infections. Aetiological research could be enhanced by studying the underlying mechanisms relating to all of these risk factors.	2019	eng	Review	England	31313850	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313850	smoking
Translational behavioral medicine	Care-paradigm shift promoting smoking cessation treatment among cancer center patients via a low-burden strategy, Electronic Health Record-Enabled Evidence-Based Smoking Cessation Treatment.	Tobacco smoking is an important risk factor for cancer incidence, an effect modifier for cancer treatment, and a negative prognostic factor for disease outcomes. Inadequate implementation of evidence-based smoking cessation treatment in cancer centers, a consequence of numerous patient-, provider-, and system-level barriers, contributes to tobacco-related morbidity and mortality. This study provides data for a paradigm shift from a frequently used specialist referral model to a point-of-care treatment model for tobacco use assessment and cessation treatment for outpatients at a large cancer center. The point-of-care model is enabled by a low-burden strategy, the Electronic Health Record-Enabled Evidence-Based Smoking Cessation Treatment program, which was implemented in the cancer center clinics on June 2, 2018. Five-month pre- and post-implementation data from the electronic health record (EHR) were analyzed. The percentage of cancer patients assessed for tobacco use significantly increased from 48% to 90% (z = 126.57, p < .001), the percentage of smokers referred for cessation counseling increased from 0.72% to 1.91% (z = 3.81, p < .001), and the percentage of smokers with cessation medication significantly increased from 3% to 17% (z = 17.20, p < .001). EHR functionalities may significantly address barriers to point-of-care treatment delivery, improving its consistent implementation and thereby increasing access to and quality of smoking cessation care for cancer center patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313808	smoking
Medical science monitor : international medical journal of experimental and clinical research	Culprit Lesion Characteristics in Young Patients with Hyperhomocysteinemia.	BACKGROUND The relationships between culprit coronary plaque characteristics and hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) are not fully understood in young patients. In this study we investigated the relationship between culprit atherosclerotic plaque phenotype assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT) and hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) in young patients. MATERIAL AND METHODS We investigated the OCT imaging and HHcy of 123 lesions in 123 young patients (≤45 years of age). According to OCT images, culprit lesions were classified as thin-cap fiber atheroma (TCFA), thrombus, and other. The 123 patients were grouped as: HHcy group (53 cases, HHcy ≥15.5 µmol/l) and control group (70 cases, HHcy <15.5 µmol/l). RESULTS Compared with the control group, the HHcy group had a higher proportion of OCT-TCFA (p=0.03), OCT-vasa vasorum (p=0.013), and OCT-thrombus (p=0.012), and a larger lipid arc (p=0.002). HHcy (P=0.037) and metabolic syndrome (MetS) (P=0.016) remained independent predictors of TCFAs. HHcy (P=0.026) and smoking (P=0.005) remained independent determinants of thrombus. CONCLUSIONS HHcy and MetS are associated with TCFAs, and HHcy and smoking are associated with thrombus in young patients with coronary artery disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313754	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313754	smoking
Birth defects research	Smoking and pregnancy: Epigenetics and developmental origins of the metabolic syndrome.	Maternal smoking causes lower birth weight, birth defects, and other adverse pregnancy outcomes. Epidemiological evidence over the past four decades has grown stronger and the adverse outcomes attributed to maternal smoking and secondhand smoke exposure have expanded. This review presents findings of latent and persistent metabolic effects in offspring of smoking mothers like those observed in studies of maternal undernutrition during pregnancy. The phenotype of offspring of smoking mothers is like that associated with maternal undernutrition. Born smaller than offspring of nonsmokers, these children have increased risk of being overweight or obese later. Plausible mechanisms include in utero hypoxia, nicotine-induced reductions in uteroplacental blood flow, placental toxicity, or toxic growth restriction from the many toxicants in tobacco smoke. Studies have reported increased risk of insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes and hypertension although the evidence here is weaker than for overweight/obesity. Altered DNA methylation has been consistently documented in smoking mothers' offspring, and these epigenetic alterations are extensive and postnatally durable. A causal link between altered DNA methylation and the phenotypic changes observed in offspring remains to be firmly established, yet the association is strong, and mediation analyses suggest a causal link. Studies examining expression patterns of affected genes during childhood development and associated health outcomes should be instructive in this regard. The adverse effects of exposure to tobacco smoke during pregnancy now clearly include permanent metabolic derangements in offspring that can adversely affect life-long health.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31313499	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313499	smoking
Addiction (Abingdon, England)	Behavioral Economic Tobacco Demand in Relation to Cigarette Consumption and Nicotine Dependence: A Meta-Analysis of Cross-sectional Relationships.	All five demand indices derived from the Cigarette Purchase Task were robustly associated with cigarette consumption and tobacco dependence. Of the demand indices, maximum expenditure, intensity and elasticity exhibited the largest magnitude associations.	2019	eng	Review	England	31313403	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313403	smoking
Journal of applied toxicology : JAT	Benchmark dose estimation of urinary and blood cadmium as biomarkers of renal dysfunction among 40-75-year-old non-smoking women in rural areas of southwest China.	This study evaluated the association between urinary cadmium (U-Cd) and blood Cd (B-Cd) and several biomarkers of renal dysfunction (α	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313336	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313336	smoking
The Cochrane database of systematic reviews	Incentives for smoking cessation.	Overall there is high-certainty evidence that incentives improve smoking cessation rates at long-term follow-up in mixed population studies. The effectiveness of incentives appears to be sustained even when the last follow-up occurs after the withdrawal of incentives. There is also moderate-certainty evidence, limited by some concerns about risks of bias, that incentive schemes conducted among pregnant smokers improve smoking cessation rates, both at the end of pregnancy and post-partum. Current and future research might explore more precisely differences between trials offering low or high cash incentives and self-incentives (deposits), within a variety of smoking populations.	2019	eng	Review	England	31313293	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313293	smoking
MMW Fortschritte der Medizin	[COPD - Smoking is not the only risk factor].	 	2019	ger	Review	Germany	31313169	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313169	smoking
Journal of medical systems	Cervical Cancer Identification with Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique and PCA Analysis using Random Forest Classifier.	Cervical cancer is the fourth most communal malignant disease amongst women worldwide. In maximum circumstances, cervical cancer indications are not perceptible at its initial stages. There are a proportion of features that intensify the threat of emerging cervical cancer like human papilloma virus, sexual transmitted diseases, and smoking. Ascertaining those features and constructing a classification model to categorize, if the cases are cervical cancer or not is an existing challenging research. This learning intentions at using cervical cancer risk features to build classification model using Random Forest (RF) classification technique with the synthetic minority oversampling technique (SMOTE) and two feature reduction techniques recursive feature elimination and principle component analysis (PCA). Utmost medical data sets are frequently imbalanced since the number of patients is considerably fewer than the number of non-patients. For the imbalance of the used data set, SMOTE is cast-off to solve this problem. The data set comprises of 32 risk factors and four objective variables: Hinselmann, Schiller, Cytology and Biopsy. Accuracy, Sensitivity, Specificity, PPA and NPA of the four variables remains accurate after SMOTE when compared with values obtained before SMOTE. An RSOnto ontology has been created to visualize the progress in classification performance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312985	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312985	smoking
Clinical oral investigations	Mapping of inflammatory biomarkers in the peri-implant crevicular fluid before and after the occlusal loading of narrow diameter implants.	The study contributes to the understanding of the osseointegration process in a clinically atrophic population rehabilitated with IOD, and highlights the importance of monitoring clinical peri-implant health-related parameters, smoking habit, and time since edentulism to predict implant success rates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312971	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312971	smoking
Insights into imaging	Diffuse smoking-related lung diseases: insights from a radiologic-pathologic correlation.	Cigarettes are well-recognized risk factors responsible for the emergence of a variety of pathologic conditions affecting both the airways and the lungs. Smoking-related lung diseases can be classified as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and several types of interstitial diseases, such as pulmonary Langerhans cell histiocytosis, bronchiolitis, desquamative interstitial pneumonitis, acute eosinophilic pneumonia, and interstitial fibrosing lung diseases. The evidence of combined lower lung fibrosis and predominant upper lung emphysema is renowned as a distinct clinical entity, named combined pulmonary fibrosis and emphysema. Although computerized tomography permits an adequate classification and distinction of these diseases, the clinical, imaging, and histological features often overlap and coexist in a single patient. Therefore, a combined radiologic and pathologic approach, in the appropriate clinical setting, is useful for best comprehension and distinction of these entities. Our goals are to describe the imaging features in smoking-related lung diseases and how the pathological manifestations translate on high-resolution computerized tomography.	2019	eng	Review	Germany	31312909	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312909	smoking
Journal of preventive medicine and hygiene	Effectiveness of a training course on smoking cessation knowledge and behaviour for health profession students: the SISMA project.	Given the central role health professionals play in patient care, students need to be aware and trained in tobacco cessation techniques. Our results indicate that smoking behaviour significantly changed after attending a university course for smoking cessation and students appreciated its contents and structure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31312741	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312741	smoking
Global health research and policy	Implementation and fidelity of a participatory learning and action cycle intervention to prevent and control type 2 diabetes in rural Bangladesh.	Our complex intervention was implemented as planned and is likely to be valid in similar contexts given the flexibility of the participatory approach to contextually specific barriers to prevention and control of type 2 diabetes. Fidelity to the participatory approach is key to implementing the intervention and effectively addressing type 2 diabetes in a low-income country.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312722	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312722	smoking
Respiratory medicine case reports	Chronic Pulmonary Melioidosis Masquerading as lung malignancy diagnosed by EBUS guided sheath technique.	Diagnosis of pulmonary mass lesions can be challenging with several possible differentials. A 41-year-old Caucasian woman presented with intermittent non-specific chest pain on a background of 30 pack years of smoking history. A CT scan of the chest confirmed an opacity in the right lower lobe suspicious for primary pulmonary malignancy and PET scan showed moderate FDG avidity of the lesion. Conventional flexible bronchoscopy did not demonstrate an endobronchial lesion, Using Endobrochial Ultrasound (EBUS) Guide sheath technique, the lesion was localized in the posterior segment of the right lower lobe. Brushings, biopsies and washings were taken through the guide sheath, along with transbronchial cryobiopsy. Culture of bronchial brushings from the lesion on Ashdown's agar medium showed 	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31312598	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312598	smoking
Royal Society open science	Smoking does not accelerate leucocyte telomere attrition: a meta-analysis of 18 longitudinal cohorts.	Smoking is associated with shorter leucocyte telomere length (LTL), a biomarker of increased morbidity and reduced longevity. This association is widely interpreted as evidence that smoking causes accelerated LTL attrition in adulthood, but the evidence for this is inconsistent. We analysed the association between smoking and LTL dynamics in 18 longitudinal cohorts. The dataset included data from 12 579 adults (4678 current smokers and 7901 non-smokers) over a mean follow-up interval of 8.6 years. Meta-analysis confirmed a cross-sectional difference in LTL between smokers and non-smokers, with mean LTL 84.61 bp shorter in smokers (95% CI: 22.62 to 146.61). However, LTL attrition was only 0.51 bp yr	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312500	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312500	smoking
Frontiers in psychology	Smoking Status, Body Mass Index, Health-Related Quality of Life, and Acceptance of Life With Illness in Stable Outpatients With COPD.	Smoking and obesity are important factors related to the etiology and clinical features of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The aim of this study was to carry out deeper analyses of the links between smoking status and body mass index as well as of the links between individual dimensions of health-related quality of life (QoL) and acceptance of life with disease in patients with COPD. Information about BMI, smoking status, clinical features of COPD, a COPD assessment test, and airflow obstruction indicators were obtained from 105 outpatients attending a pulmonary clinic. Analysis of covariance demonstrated that the subgroups of patients distinguished based on smoking status and BMI differed significantly in severity of Cough, Dyspnea, Limitation of daily activities, Lack of self-confidence, and Quality of sleep, independently of sociodemographic factors and clinical features of COPD. The results of our study suggest a certain path of the potential effects of obesity and smoking status on QoL. Risky health behaviors, such as smoking and at-risk body mass, only affect some aspects of health-related QoL.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312165	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312165	smoking
Scientific reports	The association between accelerometer-assessed physical activity and respiratory function in older adults differs between smokers and non-smokers.	The association between physical activity and lung function is thought to depend on smoking history but most previous research uses self-reported measures of physical activity. This cross-sectional study investigates whether the association between accelerometer-derived physical activity and lung function in older adults differs by smoking history. The sample comprised 3063 participants (age = 60-83 years) who wore an accelerometer during 9 days and undertook respiratory function tests. Forced vital capacity (FVC) was associated with moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA; acceleration ≥0.1 g (gravity)) in smokers but not in never smokers: FVC differences for 10 min increase in MVPA were 58.6 (95% Confidence interval: 21.1, 96.1), 27.8 (4.9, 50.7), 16.6 (7.9, 25.4), 2.8 (-5.2, 10.7) ml in current, recent ex-, long-term ex-, and never-smokers, respectively. A similar trend was observed for forced expiratory volume in 1 second. Functional data analysis, a threshold-free approach using the entire accelerometry distribution, showed an association between physical activity and lung function in all smoking groups, with stronger association in current and recent ex-smokers than in long-term ex- and never-smokers; the associations were evident in never smokers only at activity levels above the conventional 0.1 g MVPA threshold. These findings suggest that the association between lung function and physical activity in older adults is more pronounced in smokers than non-smokers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311982	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311982	smoking
Respiratory care	Effectiveness of a Pulmonary Rehabilitation Program on Persistent Asthma Stratified for Severity.	Subjects with asthma at any GINA step seemed to benefit from a pulmonary rehabilitation program; analysis of our data highlighted that pulmonary rehabilitation was more beneficial in younger subjects with a smoking history and worse baseline exercise tolerance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311850	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311850	smoking
BMJ case reports	Aortoiliac occlusive disease, a silent syndrome.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311790	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311790	smoking
Systematic reviews	Pragmatic methods for reviewing exceptionally large bodies of evidence: systematic mapping review and overview of systematic reviews using lung cancer survival as an exemplar.	The study utilised a novel approach for reviewing an extensive and complicated body of research evidence. It enabled us to address a broad research question and focus on a specific area of priority. The staged approach ensured the review remained relevant to the stakeholders throughout, whilst maintaining the use of objective and transparent methods. It also provided important information on the needs of future research. However, it required extensive planning, management, and ongoing reviewer training.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311605	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311605	smoking
BMC oral health	Risk indicators of aggressive periodontitis in a Jordanian population.	Risk indicators associated with AgP in this study population were: age > 35 years, female gender and positive family history of periodontal disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311530	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311530	smoking
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Impact of allergies on health-related quality of life in patients with asthma.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311356	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311356	smoking
Expert review of respiratory medicine	The impact of smoking and the influence of other factors on lung cancer.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311354	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311354	smoking
Seminars in neurology	A Decision-Analytic Approach to Addressing the Evidence About Football and Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy.	Doubts can be raised about almost any assertion that a particular exposure can lead to an increase in a given adverse health effect. Even some of the most well-accepted causal associations in public health, such as that linking cigarette smoking to increased lung cancer risk, have intriguing research questions remaining to be answered. The inquiry whether an exposure causes a disease is never wholly a yes/no question but ought to follow from an appraisal of the weight of evidence supporting the positive conclusion in light of any coherent theories casting doubt on this evidence and the data supporting these. More importantly, such an appraisal cannot be made sensibly without considering the relative consequences to public health and economic welfare of specific 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311037	smoking
Nutrition (Burbank, Los Angeles County, Calif.)	Vitamin D supplementation after malnutrition associated with time-related increase of cancer diagnoses: A cohort study of 389 patients with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.	VDs was time-related to cancer diagnosis in a cohort of patients with alcoholic WKS. The study may suggest the proliferation of cancer as an adverse effect of VDs, particularly in malnourished patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310957	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310957	smoking
Addictive behaviors	Subjective response to intranasal nicotine administration in oral contraceptive users and naturally-cycling women.	Despite significantly different hormone levels, group differences in subjective response to nicotine were relatively few. Additional research is needed to elucidate the mechanisms involved in these observations, as well as explore how they may influence cessation in women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310925	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310925	smoking
Cytokine	Genetic variants in IFNG and IFNGR1 and tuberculosis susceptibility.	IFNG rs1861494 polymorphism was associated with TB, particularly in the younger and male subgroups.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310896	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310896	smoking
Preventive medicine	Frequency of E-cigarette use and cigarette smoking among Canadian students.	The emergence of electronic nicotine delivery systems (commonly referred to as e-cigarette) has created an ongoing public health debate and concerns, especially among adolescents. The present study examined associations between the frequency of e-cigarette use and cigarette smoking among school students. Data on students (grades 7-12) was obtained from the 2016-2017 Canadian Student Tobacco, Alcohol and Drugs Survey (n = 51,661). Multivariable logistic regression analyses were conducted to examine associations between the frequency of e-cigarette use and smoking. Subgroup analyses were performed for male and female students. Among those who reported any cigarette smoking in the past 30 days, 55% reported e-cigarette use at least once in the last 30 days. Additionally, 17% reported e-cigarette use for 21-30 days among those who smoked cigarettes for at least 21 days. Multivariable logistic regression analysis showed e-cigarette use was associated with higher odds of cigarette smoking, especially among more frequent e-cigarette users. Those who used an e-cigarette 21-30 days had higher odds of cigarette smoking (smoked cigarette at least once, AOR = 4.83, CI = 3.33-7.01; at least 11 days, AOR = 3.73, CI = 2.40-5.80; at least 21 days, AOR = 3.39, CI = 2.16-5.34). Findings suggest that those who smoked cigarettes at least once in the past 30 days had a higher frequency of e-cigarette use.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310786	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310786	smoking
Gastroenterology	Reply to "Tobacco smoking and alcohol drinking: two clinically significant risk factors for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma".	 	2019	eng	Letter	United States	31310740	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310740	smoking
PloS one	Why video health education messages should be considered for all dental waiting rooms.	Video format oral health education used in dental waiting rooms was found to be effective in educating patients and instigating both immediate and sustained self-reported behaviour change. Significant improvement in tools used for oral hygiene and a reduction in sweets consumption were demonstrated, both of which are essential factors in reducing caries rates and improving oral health.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310627	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310627	smoking
American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	Increased Pulmonary GM-CSF Causes Alveolar Macrophage Accumulation: Mechanistic Implications for Desquamative Interstitial Pneumonitis.	In mice, cigarette-smoke increased pulmonary GM-CSF and AM proliferation, chronically increased pulmonary GM-CSF recapitulated the cardinal features of DIP, including AM accumulation, emphysema, secondary polycythemia, and increased mortality. Results suggest pulmonary GM-CSF may be involved in the pathogenesis of DIP.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310562	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310562	smoking
Health economics	Roommate effects in health outcomes.	We use randomized roommate assignment in dormitories in a college in Kolkata in India to examine peer effects in weight gains among roommates. We use administrative data on weight, height, and test scores of students at the time of college admission and then survey these students at the end of their first and second years in college. We do not find any significant roommate specific peer effect in weight gain. Our results rather suggest that an obese roommate reduces the probability that the other roommates become obese in subsequent years. We examine potential mechanism using survey data on students' eating habits, smoking, exercise, and sleeping patterns. We find that obese roommates sleep longer, which in turn improves the sleep pattern of others, which might explain the weak negative effect of obese roommates on the weight of others in the same room.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310423	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310423	smoking
Journal of cardiovascular electrophysiology	Prognostic Significance of P-Wave Morphology in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease.	The P-wave morphology parameters predict independently SCD/SCA in patients with CAD. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310355	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310355	smoking
Sleep	Dry eye and sleep quality: a large community-based study in Hangzhou.	Our large, community-based study showed a strong association between poor sleep quality and an increased severity of dry eye, suggesting that preventing either one of the discomforts might alleviate the other.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310315	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310315	smoking
Endocrinology	Associations between bone impact microindentation and clinical risk factors for fracture.	Impact microindentation (IMI) measures bone material strength index (BMSi) in vivo. However, clinical risk factors that affect BMSi are largely unknown. This study investigated associations between BMSi and clinical risk factors for fracture in men. BMSi was measured using the OsteoProbe in 357 men (ages 33-96yr) from the Geelong Osteoporosis Study. Risk factors included age, weight, height, body mass index (BMI), femoral neck BMD, parental hip fracture, prior fracture, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), secondary osteoporosis, smoking, alcohol consumption, sedentary lifestyle, medications, diseases and low serum vitamin D levels. BMSi was negatively associated with age (r = -0.131, p=0.014), weight (r = -0.109, p=0.040) and BMI (r = -0.083, p=0.001); no correlations were detected with BMD (r = 0.000, p=0.998) or height (r = 0.087, p=0.10). Mean BMSi values for men with and without prior fracture were 80.2±6.9 vs 82.8±6.1 (p=0.024); parental hip fracture 80.1±6.1 vs 82.8±6.9 (p=0.029); T2DM 80.3 ± 8.5 vs 82.9 ± 6.6 (p=0.059). BMSi did not differ in the presence vs absence of other risk factors. In multivariable models, mean(±SD) BMSi remained associated with prior fracture and parental hip fracture after adjusting for age and BMI: prior fracture (80.5±1.1 vs 82.8±0.4, p=0.044); parental fracture (79.9±1.2 vs 82.9±0.4, p=0.015). No other confounders were identified. We conclude that in men, BMSi discriminates prior fracture and parental hip fracture, which are both known to increase the risk for incident fracture. These findings suggest that IMI may be useful for identifying men who have an increased risk for fracture.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310275	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310275	smoking
Journal of cellular physiology	Tobacco cigarette smoking exacerbates aortic calcification in an early stage of myocardial infarction in a female mouse model.	Despite increased social awareness, marketing restraints, tobacco taxation, and available smoking cessation rehab programs, active and passive smoking remain a worldwide challenging epidemic and a key risk factor for cardiovascular diseases development. Although cardiovascular (CV) protection is more pronounced in women than in men due to estrogenic effects, tobacco cigarette smoking exposure seems to alter this protection by modulating estrogen actions via undefined mechanisms. Premenopausal cigarette smoking women are at higher risk of adverse CV effects than non-smokers. In this study, we investigated the impact of cigarette smoking on early CV injury after myocardial infarction (MI) in non-menopausal female mice. Aortic arch calcification, fibrosis, reactive oxygen species, and gene expression of inflammatory and calcification genes were exaggerated in mice exposed to cigarette smoke (CS). These findings suggest that aortic injury following MI, characterized by vascular smooth muscle cells transdifferentiation, calcification, inflammation, and collagen deposition but not cardiac dysfunction is exacerbated with CS exposure. The novel findings of this study highlight the importance of aortic injury on short and long-term prognosis in CS-exposed MI females. Linking those findings to estrogen alteration is probable and entails investigation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310016	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310016	smoking
Ear, nose, & throat journal	Epithelial Squamous Metaplasia and Dysplasia in Inflammatory Nasal Polyps: An Observational Study.	Nasal polyposis (NP) is characterized by polypoid outgrowths of chronically inflamed respiratory mucosa. The presence of squamous metaplasia and dysplasia on the mucosal surface of nasal polyps (NPs) represents different manifestations of epithelial atypia. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate the presence of epithelial squamous metaplasia and dysplasia in ethmoidal NPs. This retrospective analysis of prospectively collected data involved 212 patients with NP undergoing endoscopic ethmoidectomy. To evaluate possible etiological factors for epithelial atypia, the patients in whom we histopathologically detected the presence of epithelial atypia were compared with patients with "normal" NPs in accordance with the following characteristics as found in the patients' medical records: gender, age, main symptoms, preoperative extent of sinus disease on computed tomography, atopic status, aspirin sensitivity, cigarette smoking, and occupational exposure to different noxious factors. Epithelial atypia were detected histopathologically in 44 (20.7%) NP patients, whereas features of "true" dysplasia were found in only 1 (0.5%) patient. The presence of atypia was more frequent in males than in females (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309847	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309847	smoking
Current vascular pharmacology	Postprandial Hypertriglyceridaemia Revisited in the Era of Non-Fasting Lipid Profile Testing: A 2019 Expert Panel Statement, Narrative Review	Postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia, defined as an increase in plasma triglyceride-containing lipoproteins following a fat meal, is a potential risk predictor of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and other chronic diseases. Several non-modifiable factors (genetics, age, sex and menopausal status) and lifestyle factors (diet, physical activity, smoking status, obesity, alcohol and medication use) may influence postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia. This narrative review considers the studies published over the last decade that evaluated postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia. Additionally, the genetic determinants of postprandial plasma triglyceride levels, the types of meals for studying postprandial triglyceride response, and underlying conditions (e.g. familial dyslipidaemias, diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver and chronic kidney disease) that are associated with postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia are reviewed; therapeutic aspects are also considered.	2019	eng	Review	United Arab Emirates	31309820	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309820	smoking
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Outcome in Survivors of Middle Cerebral Artery Territory Ischemic Stroke: Can it be predicted?	Our findings show that disability assessment late in the first week after onset of stroke using NIHSS accurately forecast outcome at one month after onset of stroke. The MMSE too is not expected to change at 1 month. Those with aphasia are expected to have greater disability. Based on or study we recommend that stroke patients should be assessed with NIHSS and MMSE before discharge, to explain the prognosis of the patient. Also more intense counselling on controlling blood pressure and diabetes as well as abstinence from smoking should be undertaken routinely.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309796	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309796	smoking
Geriatrics & gerontology international	Similarities and differences in health-related behavior clustering among older adults in Eastern and Western countries: A latent class analysis of global aging cohorts.	We provide a person-centered understanding of HRB clustering of older adults over selected countries by sex, informing tailored health promotion for the target population. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2019; ••: ••-••.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31309695	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309695	smoking
The Cochrane database of systematic reviews	Lifestyle changes for treating psoriasis.	Dietary intervention may reduce the severity of psoriasis (low-quality evidence) and probably improves quality of life and reduces BMI (moderate-quality evidence) in obese people when compared with usual care, while combined dietary intervention and exercise programme probably improves psoriasis severity and BMI when compared with information only (moderate-quality evidence). None of the trials measured quality of life.We did not detect a clear difference in treatment adherence between those in the combined dietary intervention and exercise programme group and those given information only (moderate-quality evidence). Adherence may be improved through dietary intervention compared with usual care (low-quality evidence). Participants generally adhered well to the lifestyle interventions assessed in the review.No trials assessed the time to relapse. Trial limitations included unblinded participants and high dropout rate.Future trials should reduce dropouts and include comprehensive outcome measures; they should examine whether dietary intervention with or without an exercise programme is effective in non-obese people with psoriasis, whether an additional exercise programme is more effective than dietary intervention alone, whether the time to relapse prolongs in people who receive dietary intervention with or without exercise programme, and whether smoking cessation and alcohol abstinence are effective in treating psoriasis.	2019	eng	Review	England	31309536	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309536	smoking
International archives of occupational and environmental health	Prevalence of high cardiovascular risk by economic sector.	When implementing health promotion initiatives, priority should be given to sectors and professions where risk factors are most prevalent or are increasing rapidly. Measures should be tailored to the special needs of the occupational groups at high risk.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309280	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309280	smoking
World journal of plastic surgery	Frequency and Predictors of 30-Day Surgical Site Complications in Autologous Breast Reconstruction Surgery.	The rate of 30-day SSC in autologous breast reconstruction was noticeable. The strongest independent risk factor for SSC in autologous breast reconstruction was BMI>35. The type of autologous breast reconstruction was not a predictive risk factor for SSC. Plastic surgeons should inform patients about their risk for SSC and optimizing these risk factors to minimize the rate of surgical site complications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31309057	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309057	smoking
Therapeutic advances in psychopharmacology	The relationship between nicotine and psychosis.	Cigarette smoking is strongly associated with psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia. For several decades it was assumed that the relationship could be explained by reverse causation; that smoking was secondary to the illness itself, either through self-medication or a process of institutionalization, or was entirely explained by confounding by cannabis use or social factors. However, studies have exposed that such hypotheses cannot fully explain the association, and more recently a bidirectional relationship has been proposed wherein cigarette smoking may be causally related to risk of psychosis, possibly 	2019	eng	Review	England	31308936	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308936	smoking
Addiction & health	A Study on the Pattern of Self-reported Tobacco Addiction in Hypertensive Patients in Gujarat, India.	The results provide valuable insight into the tobacco addiction in patients with HTN on which non-pharmacological treatment of HTN can be based.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31308908	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308908	smoking
Addiction & health	Factor Structure of the Smoking Temptation Scale: Cross-Validation in Iranian Men.	Given the validity and reliability of the hierarchical three-factor structure for smoking temptation scale, this measure can be used in interventional programs for smoking cessation in the Iranian male population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31308907	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308907	smoking
The Pan African medical journal	Prevalence of smoking among male secondary school students in Arar City, Saudi Arabia.	Smoking is a prevalent habit among teenagers. Special concern should be directed to smoking cessation campaigns with behavioral, legal and economic interventions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31308861	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308861	smoking
Journal of blood medicine	The association between ABO blood group distribution and peptic ulcer disease: a cross-sectional study from Ethiopia.	Although PUD trended as more prevalent among patients with blood group O than other blood group types their association was not statistically significant.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308778	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308778	smoking
HIV/AIDS (Auckland, N.Z.)	Undernutrition and associated factors among HIV-positive adult patients enrolled in antiretroviral therapy (ART) clinics in the Arba Minch area, southern Ethiopia.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308761	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308761	smoking
Cancer management and research	Prognostic analysis of patients with mutant and wild-type 	The OS time of patients with mutation of exon 18 was lower than those of exon 19 and exon 21. EGFR-TKI treatment was an independent positive predictor in patients with 	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308750	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308750	smoking
Diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity : targets and therapy	Metabolic syndrome is associated with peripheral endothelial dysfunction amongst men.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308718	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308718	smoking
Vascular health and risk management	The burden of critical limb ischemia: a review of recent literature.	Peripheral arterial disease is a chronic vascular disease characterized by impaired circulation to the lower extremities. Its most severe stage, known as critical limb ischemia (CLI), puts patients at an increased risk of cardiovascular events, amputation, and death. The objective of this literature review is to describe the burden of disease across a comprehensive set of domains-epidemiologic, clinical, humanistic, and economic-focusing on key studies published in the last decade. CLI prevalence in the United States is estimated to be approximately 2 million and is likely to rise in the coming years given trends in important risk factors such as age, diabetes, and smoking. Hospitalization for CLI patients is common and up to 60% are readmitted within 6 months. Amputation rates are unacceptably high with a disproportionate risk for certain demographic and socioeconomic groups. In addition to limb loss, CLI patients also have reduced life expectancy with mortality typically exceeding 50% by 5 years. Given the poor clinical prognosis, it is unsurprising that the quality of life burden associated with CLI is significant. Studies assessing quality of life in CLI patients have used a variety of generic and disease-specific measures and all document a substantial impact of the disease on the patient's physical, social, and emotional health status compared to population norms. Finally, the poor clinical outcomes and increased medical resource use lead to a considerable economic burden for national health care systems. However, published cost studies are not comprehensive and, therefore, likely underestimate the true economic impact of CLI. Our summary documents a sobering assessment of CLI burden-a poor clinical prognosis translating into diminished quality of life and high costs for millions of patients. Continued prevention efforts and improved treatment strategies are the key to ameliorating the substantial morbidity and mortality associated with this disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308682	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308682	smoking
International journal of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease	Determinants of healthcare utilization and costs in COPD patients: first longitudinal results from the German COPD cohort COSYCONET.	Higher GOLD grade, comorbidity burden, dyspnea and moderate or severe exacerbations were determinants of elevated future costs and cost increases in COPD. In addition we identified underweight as independent risk factor for an increase in direct healthcare costs over time.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308648	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308648	smoking
British journal of social work	Protective Effect of Biculturalism for Health Amongst Minority Youth: The Case of Pacific Islander Migrant Youths in Hawai'i.	This study investigates the mechanisms by which biculturalism impacts various health outcomes amongst youth migrants to Hawai'i who are from the US-Affiliated Pacific Islands jurisdictions. Using purposive sampling, 284 males and females (twelve to nineteen years old) of Pacific Islander ethnicities in Hawai'i completed a survey. Results from path analysis showed that biculturalism significantly and positively affected self-esteem that, in turn, improved eating attitude, body satisfaction and perceived well-being. Further, eating attitude increased healthy eating behaviour and body satisfaction that, in turn, positively affected general health perception and body satisfaction. Positive smoking attitudes increased smoking activities, which negatively affect general health perception. The study demonstrated that self-esteem impacted overall health through its influence on enhancing positive perceptions about the importance of healthy eating, body satisfaction and well-being. Biculturalism indirectly led to increased self-esteem, which in turn directly influenced attitudes about healthy eating, body satisfaction and perceived well-being. Our study provides strong evidence that addressing the problem of health disparities for minority populations in the USA has to start with reaffirming the value of diversity and multiculturalism and embracing an individual's historic cultural identity. Specific implications for funding agencies and researchers of minority health programs are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308577	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308577	smoking
Scientific reports	Immediate effects of smoking on optic nerve and macular perfusion measured by optical coherence tomography angiography.	The aim of this study was the assessment of the relationship between cigarette smoking and optic nerve and macular vessel density measured by optical coherence tomography angiography. We examined 30 eyes from 30 healthy habitual smokers. The examination was performed using a high-speed and high-resolution spectral-domain optical coherence tomography RTVue XR Avanti with AngioVue (Optovue, Fremont, CA, USA) with a split-spectrum amplitude-decorrelation angiography algorithm. Blood pressure, heart rate, vascular density in the area of the optic nerve head (4.5*4.5 mm) and vascular density with the foveal avascular zone in the central macula (3.0*3.0 mm) were measured and analyzed before, immediately after and 30 minutes after cigarette smoking. Quantitative measurements were carried out by AngioAnalytics Phase 7 software. Immediately after smoking both heart rate and blood pressure increased significantly (p < 0.001) compared to values before smoking and then significantly decreased after 30 minutes comparing to values obtained right after smoking (p < 0.001). The mean area of the foveal avascular zone, parafoveal vessel density, and peripapillary vessel density did not change significantly. Our results show no immediate influence of smoking on vessel density parameters measured by specific OCTA machine in healthy habitual smokers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308472	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308472	smoking
Scientific reports	Sequence analysis of capnography waveform abnormalities during nurse-administered procedural sedation and analgesia in the cardiac catheterization laboratory.	Identifying common patterns in capnography waveform abnormalities and the factors that influence these patterns could yield insights to optimize responses to sedation-induced respiratory depression. Respiratory state sequences for 102 patients who had a procedure in a cardiac catheterisation laboratory with procedural sedation and analgesia were developed by classifying each second of procedures into a state of normal breathing or other capnography waveform abnormalities based on pre-specified cut-offs for respiratory rate and end-tidal CO	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308455	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308455	smoking
NPJ primary care respiratory medicine	Incidence of type II diabetes in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a nested case-control study.	We investigated the incidence of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) among people with COPD and whether exposure to inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and exacerbation status was associated with T2DM. This descriptive cohort study used primary care data from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). The patient cohort included people with a diagnosis of COPD and previous smoking history registered at a CPRD practice between January 2010 and December 2016. We determined incidence rates by age, gender and deprivation. Using a nested case-control design-where cases and controls are drawn from the cohort population-we matched 1:5 with patients by age, gender and GP practice and estimated odds of T2DM using logistic regression (adjusting for smoking status, deprivation, BMI, hypertension, coronary heart disease and heart failure). We identified 220,971 COPD patients; mean age at COPD diagnosis was 66 years (SD 12) and 54% were male. The incidence rate of T2DM in COPD patients was 1.26 per 100 patient years (95% CI: 1.24-1.28) and was higher among men (1.32 vs 1.18 among women). The adjusted odds ratio for T2DM was 1.47 (95% CI: 1.36-1.60) among frequent exacerbators (≥2 treated exacerbations per year) compared to infrequent exacerbators and the odds ratio for patients receiving high-dose ICS (>800 mcg budesonide equivalent dose) was 1.73 (95% CI 1.65-1.82) compared to patients receiving no ICS therapy. Incidence of T2DM among COPD patients is high and exposure to ICS and frequent exacerbations are associated with a higher risk of T2DM among patients with COPD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308364	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308364	smoking
The journal of contemporary dental practice	Social Habits and Other Risk Factors that Cause Tooth Loss: An Associative Study Conducted in Taiz Governorate, Yemen.	Limited number of epidemiological surveys were carried out in Taiz Governorate to investigate the reasons of tooth loss and its relationship with social habits like Khat chewing, Shammah use, smoking, using of Miswake and toothbrush. The results of this study will guide us to develop a preventive program which may minimize tooth loss and its adverse effects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31308272	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308272	smoking
Clinical medicine (London, England)	Lessons of the month 2: A forgotten cause of transient T-wave inversion.	A 19-year-old patient presented with severe chest pain, which is not typical for cardiac angina. However, his smoking history and the strong family history of ischaemic heart disease coupled with evidence of progressive T-wave changes on his electrocardiogram (ECG) caused dilemma in deciding further management. His blood tests were normal apart from hypophosphataemia, and he had two negative troponin results. His arterial blood gases showed respiratory alkalosis. He was given analgesia for a diagnosis of musculoskeletal chest pain and the next morning his ECG, arterial blood gases and phosphate levels all normalised. He had a normal echocardiogram and was reviewed by the cardiologist who diagnosed musculoskeletal chest pain which led to distress and hyperventilation causing hypophosphataemia and transient T-wave inversion. This case is a reminder of an under-recognised physiological phenomenon involving the cardiac conduction during hyperventilation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308117	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308117	smoking
Presse medicale (Paris, France : 1983)	[Lifestyle and hypertension in women, specific aspects of non-drug treatment].	Lifestyle has worsened in women during the last three decades. This is particularly true for smoking, alcohol, and exercise. An inappropriate lifestyle increases cardiovascular risk. Lifestyle changes are more difficult to achieve in women than in men for several reasons, that may be complex: cultural, family-related… These reasons should be identified to be more efficient. The need for implementing lifestyle changes should be promoted both in the general population and in healthcare professionals to improve women health. In this respect, all medical contacts should be used to promote a healthy lifestyle.	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31307879	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307879	smoking
Taiwanese journal of obstetrics & gynecology	Effects of maternal smoking on human placental vascularization: A systematic review.	The abnormal development of placental vascularization leads to placental insufficiency, which further reduces the nutrient and trace exchange between maternal circulation and fetal circulation. These changes cause maternal and fetal complications. The objective of our systematic review was to explore the effects of maternal smoking on placental vascularization. The eligibility criteria were: articles with experimental, quasi-experimental or observational design, performed on human subjects, that study the association, correlation or causation between maternal smoking and changes in placental vascular network. A total of 33 full-text papers were assessed for eligibility, resulting in 12 original articles that were included in the systematic review. Doppler studies confirm reductions in blood flow velocity waveforms and increase in RI in the uterine, umbilical and fetal middle cerebral arteries. These findings are confirmed by morphometric measurements of fetal capillaries in villi that were shown to be smaller in smoke exposure groups.	2019	eng	Review	China (Republic : 1949- )	31307732	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307732	smoking
Respiratory research	Imaging-based clusters in former smokers of the COPD cohort associate with clinical characteristics: the SubPopulations and intermediate outcome measures in COPD study (SPIROMICS).	QCT imaging-based metrics for former smokers allow for the derivation of statistically stable clusters associated with unique clinical characteristics. This approach helps better categorization of COPD sub-populations; suggesting possible quantitative structural and functional phenotypes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307479	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307479	smoking
Journal of translational medicine	Smoking and microbiome in oral, airway, gut and some systemic diseases.	The human microbiome harbors a diverse array of microbes which establishes a mutually beneficial relation with the host in healthy conditions, however, the dynamic homeostasis is influenced by both host and environmental factors. Smoking contributes to modifications of the oral, lung and gut microbiome, leading to various diseases, such as periodontitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and cancers. However, the exact causal relationship between smoking and microbiome alteration remains to be further explored.	2019	eng	Review	England	31307469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307469	smoking
BMC oral health	The relationship between hormone replacement therapy and periodontal disease in postmenopausal women: a cross-sectional study the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey from 2007 to 2012.	The results of this study supported that it is important that hormone therapy be actively considered in the policy towards postmenopausal women. Especially, health programs such as hormone replacement therapy, non-smoking, and use of oral care products are needed for women who undergo premature menopause.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307452	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307452	smoking
BMC nephrology	Association of functional and structural social support with chronic kidney disease among African Americans: the Jackson Heart Study.	In this African-American cohort, social support was not associated with prevalent CKD or kidney function decline. Further inquiry of self-esteem's role in CKD self-management and renal outcomes is warranted.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307430	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307430	smoking
BMC gastroenterology	A new method to induce nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in mice.	The finding of this study demonstrated that a combination of cigarette smoke exposure and WD (rich in fat, fructose, and cholesterol) could induce a more reliable mouse model of NASH.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307427	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307427	smoking
Qualitative health research	Lifetime Smoking Patterns and Preferences for Smoking Cessation Among Women Veterans Receiving Veterans Health Administration Care.	The objective of this study was to identify common themes among women veterans who smoke or recently quit and had used smoking cessation treatment within the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The study built upon previous research by utilizing in-depth interviews to encourage disclosure of potentially stigmatized topics. Twenty women veterans enrolled in VHA care engaged in a quality improvement project focused on improving smoking cessation services. Qualitative analysis of de-identified interviews used a combination of content analysis and thematic analysis within the sociopharmacological model of tobacco addiction. Findings revealed that participants' smoking was influenced by woman veteran identity and by several gender-related contextual factors, including military sexual trauma and gender discrimination. Findings also highlighted other contextual factors, such as personal autonomy, emotional smoking triggers, and chronic mental health concerns. Findings are interpreted within the context of cultural power imbalances, and recommendations are provided for VHA smoking cessation for women veterans.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307290	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307290	smoking
The American journal of sports medicine	Anterior and Rotational Knee Laxity Does Not Affect Patient-Reported Knee Function 2 Years After Anterior Cruciate Ligament Reconstruction.	Neither the presence of IKDC A versus B pivot-shift nor increased anterior tibial translation of up to 6 mm is associated with clinically relevant decreases in PROs 2 years after ACL reconstruction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307221	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307221	smoking
Forensic sciences research	Chemical and physical variations of cannabis smoke from a variety of cannabis samples in New Zealand.	Studies have compared the chemical properties of tobacco smoke to those of cannabis smoke, with the objective of identifying the chemical attributes responsible for the mutagenicity and carcinogenicity of cannabis smoke. Comparative studies have included small sample sizes and produced conflicting results. The aim of this study was to assess the major chemical and physical variations of cannabis smoke across a range of cannabis samples of different potencies and origins, sourced from the illegal market in New Zealand. Twelve cannabis samples were studied ranging from 1.0% to 13.4% delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ	2018	eng	Journal Article	England	31304445	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304445	smoking
International journal of sports medicine	Methodological Considerations for a Vascular Function Test Battery.	There is a dearth of information regarding the reliability of non-invasive measures of vascular function taken in a single testing session. This study aimed to determine the test-retest reliability of a test battery of vascular function measures: automated blood pressure (BP), laser Doppler imaging with iontophoresis (LDI), digital volume pulse (DVP), pulse wave velocity (PWV), augmentation index (AIx) measured by pulse wave analysis (PWA) and flow-mediated dilation (FMD) taken within and between sessions. Measures were taken in 21 non-smoking males intra-session and again inter-session (one week apart) to determine repeatability and reproducibility, respectively. There was moderate to excellent repeatability (ICC: 0.53-0.93; CV=2.2-18.1%) and reproducibility (ICC: 0.71-0.96; CV 1.9-14.2%) for BP, DVP stiffness index, PWV, AIx, AIx normalised to heart rate (75 bpm), absolute and percentage FMD. Repeatability of the DVP reflection index was moderate (ICC: 0.64; CV=9.5%) but there was poor reproducibility (ICC: 0.17; CV=15.1%). Moreover, the repeatability and reproducibility of the LDI measures ranged from poor to good (ICC: 0.31-0.84; CV=28.4-36.7%). These data indicated that there was considerable variability in the repeatability and reproducibility of measurements of endothelial function and arterial stiffness taken in a battery of measurements, which needs careful consideration in future research designs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31307097	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307097	smoking
Genomics	Tuberculosis infection and lung adenocarcinoma: Mendelian randomization and pathway analysis of genome-wide association study data from never-smoking Asian women.	We investigated whether genetic susceptibility to tuberculosis (TB) influences lung adenocarcinoma development among never-smokers using TB genome-wide association study (GWAS) results within the Female Lung Cancer Consortium in Asia. Pathway analysis with the adaptive rank truncated product method was used to assess the association between a TB-related gene-set and lung adenocarcinoma using GWAS data from 5512 lung adenocarcinoma cases and 6277 controls. The gene-set consisted of 31 genes containing known/suggestive associations with genetic variants from previous TB-GWAS. Subsequently, we followed-up with Mendelian Randomization to evaluate the association between TB and lung adenocarcinoma using three genome-wide significant variants from previous TB-GWAS in East Asians. The TB-related gene-set was associated with lung adenocarcinoma (p = 0.016). Additionally, the Mendelian Randomization showed an association between TB and lung adenocarcinoma (OR = 1.31, 95% CI: 1.03, 1.66, p = 0.027). Our findings support TB as a causal risk factor for lung cancer development among never-smoking Asian women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306748	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306748	smoking
Clinical oral implants research	Factors influencing long-term survival rates of implants placed simultaneously with lateral maxillary sinus floor augmentation: A 6- to 20-year retrospective study.	The survival of implants placed in <3 mm of RBH, even though it showed a lower CSR, could be considered acceptable. Neither sinus membrane perforation nor the presence of voids appeared to affect implant survival as long as supportive maintenance therapy with proper oral hygiene was provided. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31306519	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306519	smoking
The Journal of craniofacial surgery	Factors Affecting Prognosis in Patients With Spontaneous Supratentorial Intracerebral Hemorrhage Under Medical and Surgical Treatment.	Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a vascular brain disease that causes very high rates of death and disability. Whether surgical or medical treatment is more appropriate is controversial.The purpose of the study was to examine the morbidity and mortality rates of surgical and medical therapy and their differences in order to determine which patients should be operated.In our study, the authors selected randomly and evaluated retrospectively 49 patients who were operated in Haydarpaşa Numune Research and Education Hospital Neurosurgery Clinic and 51 patients who received medical therapy at Neurology Clinic for spontaneous supratentorial ICH between January 2007 and December 2011.The authors documented a detailed history of each patient featuring their neurological examination, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), Modified Rankin Disability Scale (MRDS), imaging, age, gender, and history of stroke, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking and alcohol use, aspirin, or coumadin usage.As a result, the mortality rate found in our study was similar to previous studies (49%). Mortality of patients who underwent surgery (63%) found a higher rate of disability. This is because hematoma of the patients who were operated on larger volumes and diameters, GCS lower than and the higher MRDS scores, higher rates of herniation is connected. The authors concluded that very early operation does not create a difference in treatment between mortality rates. The authors observed that the most important factors for the prognosis of ICH patients whether operated or not are the GCS of patients at the time of arrival to the hospital and the nature of the hematoma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306386	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306386	smoking
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Carotid Atherosclerosis and Cognitive Function in a General Population Aged 63-65 Years: Data from the Akershus Cardiac Examination (ACE) 1950 Study.	Carotid atherosclerotic burden was, unlike other measures of advanced carotid atherosclerosis, not independently associated with global cognitive function.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306128	smoking
Nutrition and cancer	Sociodemographic and Lifestyle Factors in Relation to Gastric Cancer in a High-Risk Region of China: A Matched Case-Control Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306032	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306032	smoking
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism	Hypothyroidism and its Association with Sleep Apnea Among Adults in The United States: NHANES 2007-2008.	Hypothyroidism is associated with SA after adjustment for potential confounding variables.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305928	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305928	smoking
JAMA internal medicine	Association Between Electronic Cigarette Use and Smoking Reduction in France.	This study's findings suggest that, among adult smokers, EC use appears to be associated with a decrease in smoking level and an increase in smoking cessation attempts but also with an increase in the level of smoking relapse in the general population after approximately 2 years of follow-up.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305860	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305860	smoking
Medicine	Tobacco smoke exposure and the risk of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia: A meta-analysis.	Maternal smoking before, during, or after pregnancy was not associated with childhood ALL or AML. However, paternal smoking was related to a significantly elevated risk of childhood ALL during pregnancy, but not for AML. Maternal daily smoking consumption was not associated with ALL or AML during pregnancy. The higher consumption of paternal smoking were, the higher the risk of childhood ALL or AML.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305478	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305478	smoking
Medicine	Predicting recurrence of nonmuscle-invasive bladder cancer (Ta-T1): A study based on 477 patients.	The aim of this study was to determine clinical recrudescent risk factors of 477 patients with newly discovered nonmuscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) (Ta-T1) in our hospital, and based on these factors, to establish a recurrence risk prediction model of each NMIBC patient.This study included 477 patients with newly discovered NMIBC (Ta-T1) from January 2012 to December 2016; all patients were treated surgically by transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT). The outcomes of patients were with or without recurrence within 2 years. The nomograms were based on Cox regression analyses, and the calibration curves were founded to evaluate the agreements of the predicted probability with the actual observed probability.Of the 477 patients with NMIBC, 392 were males (82.2%) and 85 were females (17.8%), with median age 64 years. Recurrence was identified in 327 cases (68.6%). The results showed that old age, female sex, smoking history, large size of tumor, multifocal tumors, high grade, and high stage are risk factors for NMIBC recurrence, whereas no significant association was seen between tumor location and recurrence in our study. Based on the results of Cox regression analyses, several independent risk factors, including smoking history, tumor size, multifocal, immediate infusion therapy, T stage, and tumor grade, were used to establish a nomogram to calculate the recurrence probability of each NMIBC patient, and the calibration curve displayed that this nomogram had a great value of prediction.Old age, female sex, smoking history, large size of tumor, multifocal tumors, high grade, and high stage are risk factors for NMIBC recurrence, whereas immediate infusion therapy is a protective factor. And a nomogram was established as a prediction model to calculate the recurrence probability of NMIBC patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305463	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305463	smoking
Journal of public health management and practice : JPHMP	Higher Prevalence of Health-Risk Factors Among US Adults With Unmet Health Care Needs Due to Cost, 2016.	Unmet health care needs was associated with more health-risk factors regardless of insurance status. Addressing cost barriers to behavioral counseling may be one approach to consider when seeking to reduce health-risk behaviors among high-risk populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305323	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305323	smoking
Journal of health communication	"Choose Today, Live Tomorrow": A Content Analysis of Anti-Substance Use Messages Produced by Adolescents.	Adolescent-produced anti-substance use messaging is an increasingly popular and effective prevention strategy. However, little is known about the content of these messages and the production elements adolescents use to bring that content to life. In this article, we present a content analysis of 95 anti-substance use messages developed by 4-H club members across nine U.S. states as part of their participation in the media literacy program REAL media. Posters and videos were content-analyzed for target substance, prevention goal, message form, message content, persuasion strategies, and production elements. Results of the content analysis revealed that combustible tobacco (smoking) was the most popular target substance in the sample among the choices of alcohol, marijuana, e-cigarettes, and chewing tobacco. More youth developed messages with the goal of preventing substance use, rather than stopping current use. Slogans were used in the majority of messages, and nearly all messages took an informational form, rather than narrative or statistical form. Persuasion strategies covered in the curriculum, including fun with the group, unexpected, style, and endorsement were scantily used. Finally, results showed that production value was high in this sample, reflected by the extensive use of color and variety of fonts and font sizes. Implications for future media literacy interventions and research are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305221	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305221	smoking
Substance use & misuse	Young adult dual combusted cigarette and e-cigarette users' anticipated responses to hypothetical e-cigarette market restrictions.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305213	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305213	smoking
Journal of computational biology : a journal of computational molecular cell biology	Distinct Molecular Mechanisms Analysis of Three Lung Cancer Subtypes Based on Gene Expression Profiles.	
                    	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305128	smoking
Journal of the American Heart Association	Classical Cardiovascular Risk Factors and HIV are Associated With Carotid Intima-Media Thickness in Adults From Sub-Saharan Africa: Findings From H3Africa AWI-Gen Study.	Background Studies on the determinants of carotid intima-media thickness ( CIMT ), a marker of sub-clinical atherosclerosis, mostly come from white, Asian, and diasporan black populations. We present CIMT data from sub-Saharan Africa, which is experiencing a rising burden of cardiovascular diseases and infectious diseases. Methods and Results The H3 (Human Hereditary and Health) in Africa's AWI-Gen (African-Wits-INDEPTH partnership for Genomic) study is a cross-sectional study conducted in adults aged 40 to 60 years from Burkina Faso, Kenya, Ghana, and South Africa. Cardiovascular disease risk and ultrasonography of the CIMT of right and left common carotids were measured. Multivariable linear and mixed-effect multilevel regression modeling was applied to determine factors related to CIMT. Data included 8872 adults (50.8% men), mean age of 50±6 years with age- and sex-adjusted mean (±SE) CIMT of 640±123μm. Participants from Ghana and Burkina Faso had higher CIMT compared with other sites. Age (β = 6.77, 95%CI [6.34-7.19]), body mass index (17.6[12.5-22.8]), systolic blood pressure (7.52[6.21-8.83]), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (5.08[2.10-8.06]) and men (10.3[4.75- 15.9]) were associated with higher CIMT. Smoking was associated with higher CIMT in men. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-12.2 [-17.9- -6.41]), alcohol consumption (-13.5 [-19.1--7.91]) and HIV (-8.86 [-15.7--2.03]) were inversely associated with CIMT. Conclusions Given the rising prevalence of cardiovascular diseases risk factors in sub-Saharan Africa, atherosclerotic diseases may become a major pan-African epidemic unless preventive measures are taken particularly for prevention of hypertension, obesity, and smoking. HIV -specific studies are needed to fully understand the association between HIV and CIMT in sub-Saharan Africa.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304842	smoking
Journal of psychiatry & neuroscience : JPN	Large-scale evidence for an association between low-grade peripheral inflammation and brain structural alterations in major depression in the BiDirect study	The present study highlights the role of reduced grey matter volume and low-grade peripheral inflammation as interrelated biological correlates of MDD. The reported inverse association between peripheral low-grade inflammation and brain structural integrity in patients with MDD translates current knowledge from experimental studies to the bedside.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31304733	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304733	smoking
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	High Prevalence of Vitamin D Deficiency in HIV Infected on Antiretroviral Therapy in a Cohort of Indian Patients.	Vitamin D deficiency is very high in HIV patients on antiretroviral therapy. . Efavirenz (EFV), Nevirapine (NVP), Tenofovir (TDF) and Protease Inhibitors (PI's) were associated with high levels of deficiency/insufficiency of vitamin D levels. Vitamin D supplementation as a global strategy in all HIV positive patients on antiretroviral therapy is advocated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31304705	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304705	smoking
Helicobacter	The clinical meaning of the "indefinite for atrophy" lesions within gastric mucosa biopsy specimens in a region with a high prevalence of gastric cancer.	The pathological report of indefinite for atrophy suggests a higher plausibility of gastric atrophy than nonassessment due to a simple technical error.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304663	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304663	smoking
International journal of cancer	Methylation Of Hpv 16 And Epb41l3 In Oral Gargles: Associations With Oropharyngeal Cancer Detection And Tumor Characteristics.	Oropharyngeal cancer (OPC) incidence is increasing significantly among men and often requires intensive therapy causing significant morbidity. Early detection of OPC is needed, when monotherapy can be safely delivered with less treatment associated morbidity, while maintaining high cure rates. We conducted a study of 101 pre-treatment male OPC cases matched 1:1 to 101 disease-free controls for age and smoking history. Oral gargles were collected from cases and controls with additional biopsies or aspirates from cases. The HPV SPF	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304592	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304592	smoking
La Clinica terapeutica	Knowledge of nicotine dependence and treatment in clinical practice improved after an e-learning course among medical students.	This e-learning course has proven to be an effective tool in teaching students on nicotine dependence and treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31304511	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304511	smoking
La Clinica terapeutica	Smoking E-CigaRette and HEat-noT-burn products: validation of the SECRHET questionnaire.	There is little or no data on consumption or perceptions of HTP products among youth and evidence suggests the usefulness of a standardized and validated questionnaire available to monitoring of awareness, interest in trying and prevalence of use of these novel products among young people.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31304510	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304510	smoking
ERJ open research	Demographics and survival of patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis in the FinnishIPF registry.	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is characterised by unpredictable disease course and poor survival. After the introduction of novel antifibrotic drugs, the prognosis of patients with IPF is probably changing. FinnishIPF, a nationwide registry of carefully characterised patients, was initiated in Finland in 2011. For the data analysis, we included 453 incident IPF patients diagnosed during 2011-2015. In this study, we describe the demographics and prognosis of these real-life patients. The median overall survival time of registered IPF patients was 4.5 years. The transplant-free survival at 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years was 95%, 83%, 70%, 58% and 45%, respectively. Smoking did not have any effect on survival. 117 (26%) patients received pirfenidone or nintedanib. Patients who received ≥6 months of treatment had better survival compared with those who did not receive treatment but this difference disappeared after age adjustment. The transplantation rate was 3%. Although IPF is diagnosed in Finland at a older age, the prognosis is better than expected due to a relatively well preserved lung function at diagnosis. Age and pulmonary function were identified as independent predictors of survival in the entire IPF patient population as well as in patients who had received antifibrotic treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304177	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304177	smoking
Basic and clinical andrology	Metabolic syndrome and smoking are independent risk factors of male idiopathic infertility.	Le syndrome métabolique et le tabagisme devraient être systématiquement contrôlés au début des soins médicaux chez les hommes infertiles et un accompagnement personnel et multidisciplinaire devrait être proposé pour traiter conjointement le tabagisme et les troubles du métabolisme.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304019	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304019	smoking
Saudi journal of biological sciences	Waterpipe smoking as a public health risk: Potential risk for transmission of MERS-CoV.	The Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) emerged in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 2012 causing a critical challenge to public health. The epidemiology of MERS-CoV remain enigmatic as human-to-human transmission is not fully understood. One possible scenario that might play a role in the virus transmission is the cultural waterpipe smoking. Cafés providing waterpipe smoking in cities within Saudi Arabia have been moved to areas outside city limits that frequently place them close to camels markets. We report results of a surveillance study wherein waterpipe hoses throughout several regions in Saudi Arabia were tested for the presence of MERS-CoV. A total of 2489 waterpipe samples were collected from cities where MERS-CoV cases were continuously recorded. MERS-CoV RNA wasn't detected in collected samples. Irrespective of the negative results of our survey, the public health risk of waterpipe smoking should not be underestimated. To avoid a possible transmission within country where MERS-CoV is prevalent, we recommend the replacement of resusable hoses with "one-time-use" hoses in addition to a close inspection of waterpipe components to assure the appropriate cleaning and sanitization.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Saudi Arabia	31303822	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303822	smoking
Cancer management and research	Familial association of lung cancer with liver cancer in first-degree relatives.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31303790	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303790	smoking
International journal of general medicine	Correlation of selected stress associated factors with vitamin D deficiency in Jordanian men and women.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31303782	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303782	smoking
Clinical, cosmetic and investigational dermatology	Dairy consumption and acne: a case control study in Kabul, Afghanistan.	This study showed an association between high intakes of dairy products and acne in adolescence suggesting that dairy intake may be a factor contributing to acne.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31303778	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303778	smoking
Journal of anaesthesiology, clinical pharmacology	Incidence and predictors of postoperative pulmonary complications in patients undergoing craniotomy and excision of posterior fossa tumor.	The incidence of POPC was 12.1% following infratentorial tumor surgery. The predictors for the occurrence of POPCs were postoperative blood transfusion, LCN palsy, prolonged ICU stay, and tracheostomy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31303718	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303718	smoking
Nigerian medical journal : journal of the Nigeria Medical Association	Influence of Smoking on Gingival Crevicular Fluid Interleukin 1β and Interleukin-8 in Patients with Severe Chronic Periodontitis among a Rural Population in India.	Cytokine levels were significantly elevated in periodontitis patients. Smokers exhibited a decrease in IL-8 and increase in IL-1β levels. Hence, this reflects the influence of smoking on immunosuppression and its role in the pathogenesis of periodontal disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Nigeria	31303689	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303689	smoking
Social cognition	DOES IT HELP SMOKERS IF WE STIGMATIZE THEM? A TEST OF THE STIGMA-INDUCED IDENTITY THREAT MODEL AMONG U.S. AND DANISH SMOKERS.	Research shows that smokers feel stigmatized, but does stigmatizing smokers do more harm than good? The model of stigma-induced identity threat was used to experimentally examine how U.S. and Danish smokers respond to stigma-relevant cues. Heavy smokers (112 Americans, 112 Danes) smoked a cigarette while giving a speech that was either video (stigma-visible condition) or audio recorded (stigma-concealed condition). Smokers high in self-concept reacted to the stigma-visible (as opposed to the stigma-concealed) condition with greater physiological reactivity (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303688	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303688	smoking
Revista espanola de salud publica	[Prevalence of smoke-free homes and passive exposure to tobacco in pediatric population (children from 3 to 36 months)].	Los hogares libres de humo son mayoritarios, pero persiste la exposición pasiva al tabaco en el hogar con niños menores de 3 años, especialmente en familias con menor nivel educativo. Por ello, se deberían incentivar campañas de sensibilización sobre los efectos de la exposición pasiva en menores, especialmente en familias con menos recursos.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31303641	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303641	smoking
EBioMedicine	Tobacco smoking induces changes in true DNA methylation, hydroxymethylation and gene expression in bronchoalveolar lavage cells.	Collectively, these findings suggest that tobacco smoke exposure epigenetically modifies BAL cells, possibly involving a continuous active demethylation and subsequent increased activity of inflammatory processes in the lungs. FUND: The study was supported by the Swedish Research Council, the Swedish Heart-Lung Foundation, the Stockholm County Council (ALF), the King Gustav's and Queen Victoria's Freemasons' Foundation, Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation, Neuro Sweden, and the Swedish MS foundation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303497	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303497	smoking
Sleep health	Adolescent substance use and its association to sleep disturbances: A systematic review.	Understanding the adolescents' substance use in relation to their sleep disturbance with sleep as a dependent variable, provides future direction for sleep health promotion in adolescents with substance use to prevent further health consequences.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303473	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303473	smoking
Clinical lung cancer	Increased Incidence of Lung Cancer Among Patients With Superficial Transitional Cell Carcinoma: A Potential Risk Cohort for Lung Cancer Screening.	Patients with localized TCC have a higher incidence of LC than the general population. The risk is significantly increased among women compared with men. Considering this increased risk, patients with early stage TCC might stand to benefit from LC screening. Additional differences were noted between male and female TCC patients, which bear further study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303453	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303453	smoking
The Lancet. Global health	Global, regional, and national prevalence and risk factors for peripheral artery disease in 2015: an updated systematic review and analysis.	None.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303293	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303293	smoking
Journal of primary care & community health	Depression Outcomes in Smokers and Nonsmokers: Comparison of Collaborative Care Management Versus Usual Care.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303098	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303098	smoking
Neurointervention	Off-Label Application of Pipeline Embolization Device for Intracranial Aneurysms.	For anterior circulation aneurysms, the off-label application of PED is as effective and safe as reported for on-label intracranial aneurysms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31302986	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302986	smoking
Maternal and child health journal	Smoking Cessation and Pregnancy: Timing of Cessation Reduces or Eliminates the Effect on Low Birth Weight.	Preconception cessation yielded LBW rates comparable to non-smokers. The risk for LBW increased as smoking continued throughout pregnancy among full term births, an important new finding in contrast with other studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302877	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302877	smoking
Clinical rheumatology	A preliminary study of lung abnormalities on HRCT in patients of rheumatoid arthritis-associated interstitial lung disease with progressive fibrosis.	A wide distribution of subpleural RP and/or interlobular septal thickening and PBVI thickening on HRCT appear predictive of progressive fibrosis in RA-ILD. The combined evaluation of these two CT abnormalities has a good judgment value. Key Points • We designed this study to investigate the risk factors for progressive fibrosis in patients with RA-ILD. Factors including clinical, physiological, radiological and therapeutic variables were all included in the data analysis. • Our results showed HRCT abnormalities, rather than other parameters, appeared predictive of progressive fibrosis in RA-ILD. • The methods and results of image evaluation in this article would provide reference to rheumatologists in identifying early stage of progressive fibrosis which helps to improve poor prognosis of RA-ILD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302858	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302858	smoking
Journal of gambling studies	Predictors of Dropout in Disordered Gamblers in UK Residential Treatment.	Within the cohort of individuals who seek treatment for disordered gambling, over half fail to complete treatment. The current study sought to identify predictors of treatment dropout in a sample of gamblers attending a residential treatment facility for disordered gamblers in the UK and to report differences in voluntary and enforced dropout. Data on 658 gamblers seeking residential treatment with the Gordon Moody Association (GMA) was analysed, collected between 2000 and 2015. Measurements included demographic data, self-reported gambling behavior, (including the Problem Gambling Severity Index), mental and physical health status, and a risk assessment. Binary logistic regression models were used to examine predictors of treatment termination. Results confirm a high percentage of treatment dropout among disordered gamblers (51.3%). Significant predictors of treatment dropout included older age of the client, higher levels of education, higher levels of debt, online gambling, gambling on poker, shorter duration of treatment, higher depression, experience of previous treatment programmes and medication, and adverse childhood experiences. Within non-completers, significant predictors of enforced dropout included lifetime homelessness, less debt, sports gambling, depression and lifetime smoking. Those who were on a longer treatment programme and had previously received gambling treatment or support were less likely to be asked to leave. Clinicians working in inpatient support need to be aware of the increased psychopathogical and psychosocial problems in those who are at risk of termination and make attempts to retain them in treatment and increase patient compliance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302803	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302803	smoking
JAMA	Association of Lifestyle and Genetic Risk With Incidence of Dementia.	Among older adults without cognitive impairment or dementia, both an unfavorable lifestyle and high genetic risk were significantly associated with higher dementia risk. A favorable lifestyle was associated with a lower dementia risk among participants with high genetic risk.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302669	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302669	smoking
BMJ case reports	Toe necrosis: report of uncommon aetiology.	Toe necrosis has many aetiologies. The most common one is ischaemia. In fact, both direct and indirect toe necrosis, as well as related lower limb gangrene, could be secondary to mechanical trauma, infections, pharmacological sensitivity, cancer, blue toe syndrome and other granulomatous diseases. We report a case of toes necrosis caused by an uncommon aetiology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302625	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302625	smoking
Tobacco control	'Pro-tobacco propaganda': a case study of tobacco industry-sponsored elementary schools in China.	National tobacco control legislation banning all forms of indirect marketing including CSR is needed in order to protect the health of future generations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302606	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302606	smoking
Journal of epidemiology and community health	Inequalities in adolescent self-rated health and smoking in Europe: comparing different indicators of socioeconomic status.	Socioeconomic inequalities in adolescent health were largest according to SES indicators more closely related to the adolescent's education as well as the adolescent's perception of relative family SES, rather than objective indicators of parental education and material family affluence. For future studies on adolescent health inequalities, consideration of adolescent-related SES indicators was recommended.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302594	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302594	smoking
Public health	Dissuasive cigarettes: which cues are the most effective at deterring young people from smoking?	This study highlights the importance of the appearance of cigarettes and suggests that dissuasive cigarettes may be an innovative tobacco control measure for governments.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302393	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302393	smoking
Social science & medicine (1982)	Dynamic, data-driven typologies of long-term smoking, cessation, and their correlates: Findings from the International Tobacco Control (ITC) Netherlands Survey.	The unveiled heterogeneity of smoking behavior over time and the varied cross-dependencies between smoking data-driven typologies and those of underlying risk factors underscore the need of individually tailored approaches for motivational quitting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302376	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302376	smoking
Psychoneuroendocrinology	Sedentary behaviour and chronic stress in old age: A cross-sectional analysis of TV viewing and hair cortisol concentrations.	In a large sample of older adults in England, self-reported sedentary behaviour was not associated with a biomarker of chronic stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302361	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302361	smoking
The Journal of surgical research	The Risk Factor of Anastomotic Hypoperfusion in Colorectal Surgery.	The evaluation of intraoperative blood flow using ICG fluorescence imaging may be able to detect anastomotic hypoperfusion, and anticoagulation therapy is a risk factor of anastomotic hypoperfusion in colorectal surgery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302324	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302324	smoking
Addictive behaviors	Examining the role of menthol cigarettes in progression to established smoking among youth.	The results suggest a relationship between using menthol cigarettes and progression from experimental to established, current smoking among youth. This study adds to a growing literature base that supports that menthol cigarettes, compared to nonmenthol cigarettes, put youth at increased risk for regular cigarette use.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302310	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302310	smoking
Journal of plastic, reconstructive & aesthetic surgery : JPRAS	Risk factors for postoperative wound complications after extremity soft tissue sarcoma resection: A systematic review and meta-analyses.	Despite advancements in the treatment of ESTS, postoperative complication rates remain high. Awareness of the risk factors for wound complications, especially those that may be modifiable, is essential to decrease postoperative morbidities in these patients to improve treatment outcomes and quality of life.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31302071	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302071	smoking
Sleep health	Association of sleep characteristics with cardiovascular health among women and differences by race/ethnicity and menopausal status: findings from the American Heart Association Go Red for Women Strategically Focused Research Network.	Better sleep habits were associated with more favorable CVH among women, suggesting that there may be benefit in incorporating sleep assessment into CVD risk screening.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302068	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302068	smoking
JACC. Heart failure	Predicting Risk for Incident Heart Failure With Omega-3 Fatty Acids: From MESA.	Higher plasma EPA was significantly associated with reduced risk for HF, with both reduced and preserved EF. (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis [MESA]; NCT00005487).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302044	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302044	smoking
JACC. Heart failure	Risk for Heart Failure: The Opportunity for Prevention With the American Heart Association's Life's Simple 7.	A healthy lifestyle, as reflected in an ideal LS7 score, was associated with a 55% lower risk for HF compared with an inadequate LS7 score. Preventive strategies that target combinations of specific LS7 components could have a significant impact on decreasing incident HF in the population at large.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302040	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302040	smoking
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Prevalence of Stroke in Fayoum Governorate, Egypt: A Community-Based Study.	The prevalence of stroke in Fayoum governorate was 1.6%. Hypertension, diabetes, heart diseases, obesity, and smoking were reported risk factors of stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301986	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301986	smoking
Journal of clinical neuroscience : official journal of the Neurosurgical Society of Australasia	Carotid artery plaque detected on ultrasound is associated with impaired cognitive state in the elderly: A population-based study in Wakiso district, Uganda.	Carotid artery disease which includes carotid artery stenosis, plaques, clots and increased intima media thickness, have been reported by many studies to be associated with dementia. Dementia is an end stage of usually asymptomatic cognitive impairment. Risk factors of carotid artery disease include; age, atherosclerosis, arteriosclerosis, shorter years in school, history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, stroke and depression. This study set out to determine the prevalence of abnormal carotid ultrasound findings and their association with cognitive function among the adults ≥60 years in Wakiso district, Uganda in 2018. A total of 210 participants were included. Carotid artery stenosis, presence of plaque, stenosis and intima-media thickness were assessed by ultrasound. Cognitive status was assessed using a Mini Mental State Exam (MMSE) test. The prevalence of plaque was 21.4%. Variables which included; presence of plaque, age, education, gender, marital status, whether participant stayed alone or with someone else, care for self, occupation status, division of staying and history of smoking. The presence of plaque was associated with an abnormal cognitive function at both univariate and multivariate analysis with respective OR = 3.8 (95% CI = 1.90-7.54, p-value = 0.0001) and OR = 3.4 (95% CI = 1.38-8.15, p-value = 0.007). The cognitive function distribution was 43.8%, 19%, 34.3% and 2.9% within the normal, mild, moderate, and severe cognitive function status respectively. This study showed that prevalence of carotid artery plaque was high in this elderly population in Wakiso district Uganda. Also, carotid artery plaque was associated with abnormal cognitive function.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Scotland	31301929	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301929	smoking
Schizophrenia research	Comparison of erythrocyte omega-3 index, fatty acids and molecular phospholipid species in people at ultra-high risk of developing psychosis and healthy people.	People classified as ultra-high risk (UHR) of developing psychosis have reduced cellular membrane omega-3 and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). We aimed to compare omega-3 index, fatty acids and molecular phospholipid species from erythrocytes of people with UHR (n = 285) with age-matched healthy controls (n = 120) assessed by mass spectrometry. Lower proportions of PUFA were observed in the UHR group compared to healthy controls; specifically, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) was 29.3% lower, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) was 27.2% lower, arachidonic acid (AA) was 15.8% lower and the omega-3 index was 26.9% lower. The AA to EPA ratio was higher in the UHR group compared to the healthy group. Smoking status had no significant effect on PUFA levels in healthy or the UHR groups. BMI was associated with PUFA levels in the UHR group only and the statistical model only explains 2% of the variance of the PUFA levels. The proportion of nervonic acid was 64.4% higher in the UHR group compared to healthy controls. At a lipid class level, the UHR group had 16% higher concentrations of sphingomyelin (SM) and 46% lower concentrations phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) compared to healthy group. Of the 49 individual molecular phospholipids, twenty-seven phospholipid species were lower in the UHR group. In conclusion, there are clear differences in the proportions of erythrocyte fatty acids and phospholipids between UHR and healthy controls and UHR had higher concentrations of SM and lower concentrations of PE. These differences may represent a promising prodromal risk biomarker in the UHR population to aid clinical diagnosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301881	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301881	smoking
Addictive behaviors	Correlates of smoker identity among intermittent and light daily young adult smokers: Findings from Wave 1 of the Population Assessment of Tobacco and Health (PATH) Study.	Identifying as a 'smoker' has been associated with many cigarette smoking-related behaviors, including less frequent and intense cigarette use. Additional smoking behaviors (e.g., use of cannabis or cigars) also may contribute to self-identification as a 'smoker'. This study compared correlates of identifying as a 'smoker' and measurement strategies for non-daily cigarette consumption among young-adult intermittent and light daily smokers. Using data from Wave 1 of the PATH Study, different measurements of past 30-day non-daily cigarette use were evaluated. Weighted logistic regression models were used to compare associations with self-identification as a smoker among 18-24 year-old intermittent and light daily smokers (n = 1531). Use of other smoked products (combustible tobacco, cannabis) and other documented correlates of smoker identity were evaluated. As frequency of monthly smoking increased, self-identification as a smoker increased (1-5 days = 24%, 6-19 days = 48%, 20-29 days = 78%, light daily smokers = 93%, daily smokers using >5 cigarettes per day = 99%). Self-reported smoking status 12 months ago significantly contributed to current identification as a smoker. Smoking cigars daily or using cannabis in the past 30 days were each positively associated with smoker identity. Different measurement approaches to non-daily cigarette use offer different advantages in terms of interpretability and granularity of information. Compared to daily smokers, non-daily smokers exhibit significant variability in identifying as a smoker, and systematic correlates of smoker identification are apparent. These findings may serve to enhance understanding of non-daily smokers and potential targets for intervention among this growing subpopulation of tobacco users.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301643	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301643	smoking
Environment international	Predictors of personal exposure to black carbon among women in southern semi-rural Mozambique.	Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) has the highest proportion of people using unclean fuels for household energy, which can result in products of incomplete combustion that are damaging for health. Black carbon (BC) is a useful marker of inefficient combustion-related particles; however, ambient air quality data and temporal patterns of personal exposure to BC in SSA are scarce. We measured ambient elemental carbon (EC), comparable to BC, and personal exposure to BC in women of childbearing age from a semi-rural area of southern Mozambique. We measured ambient EC over one year (2014-2015) using a high-volume sampler and an off-line thermo-optical-transmission method. We simultaneously measured 5-min resolved 24-h personal BC using a portable MicroAeth (AE51) in 202 women. We used backwards stepwise linear regression to identify predictors of log-transformed 24-h mean and peak (90th percentile) personal BC exposure. We analyzed data from 187 non-smoking women aged 16-46 years. While daily mean ambient EC reached moderate levels (0.9 μg/m	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301586	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301586	smoking
Alcohol (Fayetteville, N.Y.)	Inverse association between habitual alcohol drinking and d-dimer in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.	Alcohol is known to inhibit blood coagulation. Patients with diabetes mellitus are prone to show hypercoagulability. However, it remains to be clarified whether and how habitual alcohol drinking affects coagulability in patients with diabetes. The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between alcohol intake and d-dimer, a sensitive marker of blood coagulation, in patients with diabetes. We investigated the relationship between alcohol intake and d-dimer in plasma of 269 patients with type 2 diabetes by using analysis of covariance and logistic regression analysis after adjustment for age, gender, body mass index, hemoglobin A1c, and histories of smoking and anti-coagulation therapy. Log-transformed d-dimer and HDL cholesterol were significantly lower and higher, respectively, in regular drinkers than in nondrinkers, while there were no significant differences in log-transformed d-dimer and HDL cholesterol in occasional drinkers and nondrinkers. Odds ratios of regular drinkers vs. nondrinkers for high d-dimer (0.46 [0.21-0.98]) and low HDL cholesterol (0.20 [0.08-0.50]) were significantly lower than the reference level, while the odds ratios of occasional drinkers for high d-dimer (1.24 [0.41-3.73] and low HDL cholesterol (0.43 [0.15-1.25]) were not significantly different from the reference level. HDL cholesterol showed a significant inverse correlation with log-transformed d-dimer both in overall subjects and in nondrinkers. Regular drinking, but not occasional drinking, was associated with lower d-dimer levels, suggesting that habitual alcohol drinking suppresses hypercoagulability in patients with diabetes. There is an alcohol intake-independent inverse association between HDL cholesterol and d-dimer.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301345	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301345	smoking
Journal of clinical laboratory analysis	Association of CD44 polymorphisms and susceptibility to HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma in the Chinese population.	For the CD44 rs13347 site, mutations in the T allele might be a risk factor for HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301090	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301090	smoking
Neuropsychiatrie : Klinik, Diagnostik, Therapie und Rehabilitation : Organ der Gesellschaft Osterreichischer Nervenarzte und Psychiater	Systematic review and meta-analysis of the association between smoking and the incidence of frailty.	Smoking increases the risk of disability; therefore, the provision of cigarette smoking cessation treatment can reduce this risk. As the results also showed, former smokers are less likely to be frail.	2019	eng	Review	Germany	31300971	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300971	smoking
Neurocritical care	Incidence, Risk Factors, and Outcomes of Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia Traumatic Brain Injury: A Meta-analysis.	Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is one of the most severe complications in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and is considered a risk factor for poor outcomes. However, the incidence of VAP among patients with TBI reported in studies varies widely. What is more, the risk factors and outcomes of VAP are controversial. This study estimates the incidence, risk factors, and outcomes of VAP in patients with TBI and provides evidence for prevention and treatment. PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science databases were searched from the earliest records to May 2018. Data involving the incidence, risk factors, and outcomes were extracted for meta-analysis. The results showed that the incidence of VAP was 36% (95% confidence interval (CI) 31-41%); risk factors analyses showed that smoking [odds ratio (OR) 2.13; 95% CI 1.16-3.92], tracheostomy (OR 9.55; 95% CI 3.24-28.17), blood transfusion on admission (OR 2.54; 95% CI 1.24-5.18), barbiturate infusion (OR 3.52; 95% CI 1.68-7.40), injury severity score (OR 4.65; 95% CI 1.96-7.34), and head abbreviated injury scale (OR 2.99; 95% CI 1.66-5.37) were related to the occurrence of VAP. When patients developed VAP, mechanical ventilation time (OR 5.45; 95% CI 3.78-7.12), ICU length of stay (OR 6.85; 95% CI 4.90-8.79), and hospital length of stay (OR 10.92; 95% CI 9.12-12.72) were significantly increased. However, VAP was not associated with an increased risk of mortality (OR 1.28; 95% CI 0.74-2.21). VAP is common in patients with TBI. It is affected by a series of factors and has a poor prognosis.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31300956	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300956	smoking
Nicotine & tobacco research : official journal of the Society for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco	Understanding the association between spontaneous quit attempts and improved smoking cessation success rates: a population survey in England with six-month follow-up.	The apparent benefit of spontaneous over planned quit attempts may be attributable to the former being more likely to involve quitting without cutting down first (i.e. abrupt cessation) than cutting down first (i.e. gradual cessation) and so this may be a more useful target for advice to improve the chances of successful quitting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300827	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300827	smoking
International journal of obesity (2005)	Impact of infant protein supply and other early life factors on plasma metabolome at 5.5 and 8 years of age: a randomized trial.	Plasma metabolome was largely unaffected by feeding choice and other early programming factors and we could not prove the existence of a long term programming effect of the plasma metabolome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300705	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300705	smoking
Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine : JABFM	Effect of Electronic Cigarettes on Smoking Reduction and Cessation in Korean Male Smokers: A Randomized Controlled Study.	In our study, the effect of e-cigarettes on smoking cessation was similar compared with that of nicotine gum, a well-documented NRT. In addition, e-cigarettes were well tolerated by the study population. Therefore, the use of e-cigarettes as an NRT may be considered for smoking-cessation purposes. A large-scale prospective randomized controlled trial is necessary to clarify our results.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300577	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300577	smoking
Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine : JABFM	Primary Care Practices' Implementation of Patient-Team Partnership: Findings from EvidenceNOW Southwest.	Practices can improve efforts to partner with patients to assess social needs, gather meaningful input on practice improvement and patient experience, and offer resource connections. Our findings supplement recent evidence that patient registries and evidence-based guidelines may effectively prevent and manage cardiovascular disease. These strategies may also promote primary care patient-team partnership.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300569	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300569	smoking
Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine : JABFM	Implementing Practice Changes in Family Medicine to Enhance Care and Prevent Disease Progression.	This issue epitomizes family medicine with a heavy emphasis on research to prevent illness and illness progression. Which patients will experience significant symptomatic knee osteoarthritis? Do the elderly use retail clinics, and what is the impact on care for chronic conditions? Does capitation payment enhance or decrease same-day access? How do primary care practices risk stratify to provide integrated care? Can risk screening and on-site providers enhance psychiatric care? What screening questions should we ask adolescents, to identify problematic drug use? A report on a practice intervention to improve opioid prescribing practices, and another on the significant level of depression in many patients taking opioid medications. Which works better for smoking cessation-e-cigarettes or nicotine gum? Reminders about teratogenic drugs and those that cause hyperpigmentation. Interdisciplinary care with pharmacists in the office does not help just the patients. We have several articles on diabetes-early diagnosis, and consideration of screening for prediabetes as a quality standard-with added commentaries about this possibility.	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31300564	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300564	smoking
BMJ open	Is the apparently protective effect of maternal nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) used in pregnancy on infant development explained by smoking cessation?: secondary analyses of a randomised controlled trial.	CTA03057/0002/001-0001; Post-results.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300493	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300493	smoking
Pathology, research and practice	Effects of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) cancer susceptibility candidate 2c (CASC2c) on proliferation, metastasis and drug resistance of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells through ERK1/2 and β-catenin signaling pathways.	CASC2c was low expressed in NSCLC tissues and cells. What's more, it inhibited the proliferation and migration of NSCLC cells by inhibiting the expression of p-ERK1/2 and β-catenin and reversed NSCLC cells' resistance to the chemotherapy drug cisplatin. Therefore, CASC2c may serve as a new biomarker and therapeutic target in the diagnosis and treatment of NSCLC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31300295	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300295	smoking
BMC nephrology	Associations of left ventricular systolic dysfunction with the factors among Thai patients on peritoneal dialysis: a cross-sectional study.	Prior history of CAD, DM, smoking, high NLR and serum phosphate levels were found to be associated with LVSD for our PD patients. The evidence from prospective study is needed to confirm the predictive value of these variables.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300037	smoking
Journal of hematology & oncology	Genomic landscape and its correlations with tumor mutational burden, PD-L1 expression, and immune cells infiltration in Chinese lung squamous cell carcinoma.	The combination of TMB, PD-L1 expression, immune infiltrates, and smoking status showed the feasibility to subgroup stratification in Chinese patients with early-stage LUSC, which might be helpful for future design of personalized immunotherapy trials in LUSC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299995	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299995	smoking
Nutrition journal	Changes in food intake patterns during 2000-2007 and 2008-2016 in the population-based Northern Sweden Diet Database.	From a public health perspective, the increase in clusters with a high conditional mean for high-fat spread and high-fat dairy and decrease in clusters with a high conditional mean for fruit and vegetables, during the time period 2008-2016 compared to 2000-2007, is worrisome as it indicates a shift away from the recommended food habits. Subgroups of women and men with less healthy dietary patterns in the time window 2008-2016 with lower education, lower age, higher body mass index, lower levels of physical activity and more smoking were identified and future interventions may be targeted towards these groups.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299991	smoking
Respiratory research	Multi-level immune response network in mild-moderate Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).	Mild-moderated COPD lung immune infiltrate is associated with the active smoking status and presence of disease; is associated with changes in whole lung tissue transcriptome and marginally reflected in blood.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299954	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299954	smoking
BMC public health	Factors affecting tobacco smoking in Ethiopia: evidence from the demographic and health surveys.	To effectively control tobacco smoking of the diverse communities in Ethiopia, policymakers should consider a multi-pronged policy approach that combines various policy tools that account for regional variation, the local social contexts, as well as the complementary nature of smoking and khat chewing practices.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299938	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299938	smoking
BMC pulmonary medicine	Randomized controlled trials of pharmacological treatments to prevent COPD exacerbations: applicability to real-life patients.	These analyses confirm that an important gap exists between real-life patients and clinical trials populations in COPD, which limits the relevance of results and therefore should be considered when grading levels of evidence and designing future studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299936	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299936	smoking
Substance use & misuse	Relations Between Parental Distress Intolerance, Adolescent Motives for Cigarette Use, and Adolescent Cigarette Smoking Levels.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299868	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299868	smoking
Psychiatry research	Polygenic liability for schizophrenia predicts shifting-specific executive function deficits and tobacco use in a moderate drinking community sample.	Individuals with schizophrenia have higher lifetime rates of substance use disorders than the general population, and research suggests high comorbidity rates may be partially explained by shared genetic influences related to common underlying etiology. Moreover, deficits in executive functions are thought to be central to the diagnosis of schizophrenia and are likewise associated with alcohol and tobacco use. The current study examined the associations between schizophrenia polygenic risk scores and tobacco and alcohol use and the mediation of these associations by executive function sub-domains. Results from the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium's meta-analysis of genome-wide association studies of schizophrenia were used to calculate polygenic risk scores in a sample of moderate drinkers. Schizophrenia risk scores were significantly associated with shifting-specific executive function deficits and tobacco use phenotypes. However, risk scores were not significantly associated with alcohol use and executive functions were not significantly associated with either tobacco or alcohol use. These findings extend previous research by suggesting that genetic risk for schizophrenia may be associated with specific sub-domains of executive function as well as smoking. The lack of a relation with alcohol use suggests genetic factors related to schizophrenia and executive functioning may not influence drinking in a non-disordered, social-drinking sample.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31299563	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299563	smoking
Journal of forensic and legal medicine	Understanding rates of genital-anal injury: Role of skin color and skin biomechanics.	Our findings provide qualified support for the importance of skin color during the forensic examination. Women with lighter skin tones may have skin that is more easily injured than women with darker tones. In contrast, external genital injuries may be more easily identified in women with light as compared to dark skin, a situation that is important in both the health care and criminal justice systems. Additionally, women with decreased viscoelasticity and increased hydration may be more easily injured. These findings support the need to develop forensic procedures that are effective in people across the range of skin colors and to interpret forensic findings considering the innate properties of the skin.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299484	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299484	smoking
Human reproduction (Oxford, England)	Endometrial preparation methods for frozen-thawed embryo transfer are associated with altered risks of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, placenta accreta, and gestational diabetes mellitus.	Not applicable.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299081	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299081	smoking
Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Prediction of Lung Cancer Screening Eligibility Using Simplified Criteria.	These simplified criteria may be useful in identifying individuals who are eligible for lung cancer screening. Applying these criteria as a pre-screening tool may improve appropriate referral and implementation of screening.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298946	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298946	smoking
The American journal of drug and alcohol abuse	Pulmonary effects of inhaled cannabis smoke.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298945	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298945	smoking
Nutrition and cancer	Dairy Products and Cancer Risk in a Northern Sweden Population.	The role of dairy products in cancer is unclear. We assessed consumption of fermented milk, non-fermented milk, cheese, and butter, estimated from semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaires, in relation to prospective risk of breast, prostate, colorectal, smoking-, and obesity-related cancers in 101,235 subjects, including 12,552 cancer cases, in the population-based Northern Sweden Health and Disease Study. Most analyses (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298944	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298944	smoking
Annals of global health	Using the Risk Factors of Pancreatic Cancer and Their Interactions in Cancer Screening: A Case-Control Study in Shanghai, China.	Age, diabetes, chronic pancreatitis, smoking, and family cancer history have been verified as the primary risk factors for pancreatic cancer in this study. Moreover, the interaction effects between old age, diabetes, chronic pancreatitis, and smoking substantially increase the probability of the development of pancreatic cancer. Cancer screening should be conducted extensively among people with these multiple factors to improve the efficiency.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298822	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298822	smoking
Wound repair and regeneration : official publication of the Wound Healing Society [and] the European Tissue Repair Society	Prevalence of foot ulcers in dialysis dependent patients.	Hemodialysis patients are at high risk for foot ulceration. The aim of this prospective study was to describe the prevalence and risk factors for foot ulcers in hemodialysis dependent patients. From 2012 until 2015 all haemodialysis patients (n=66) above18 years of age, treated at the Alrijne Hospital (Leiderdorp, The Netherlands), were included. Demographics and medical history were collected and quality of life was measured. Data was collected on common risk factors for foot ulceration: peripheral arterial disease, peripheral neuropathy with or without foot deformities, diabetes mellitus (DM), hypertension, smoking, previous foot ulcer, edema, pedicure attendance and orthopaedic footwear. Sixty six haemodialysis patients were evaluated; the prevalence of foot ulcer was 21/66 (31.8%). Risk factors were: history of foot ulceration in 27/66 (40.9%), ankle-brachial index (ABI) <0.9, toe pressure <80 mmHg in 38/66 (57.6%). Percentage of DM in the group of foot-ulcers was higher 13/21 (61.9%) versus 20/45 (44.4%) in the non-ulcer group, this was not significant (p=0.183). No differences were found in ABI, toe pressure, peripheral neuropathy and foot deformity, between the DM and non DM group. The mortality between ulcer versus no ulcer was significant different: 13/21 (61.9%) versus 11/45 (24.4%) (p=0.003). Approximately one third of haemodialysis patient have a foot ulcer 21/66 (32%). Arterial insufficiency is associated with an increased risk of foot ulcers. In patients with a foot ulcer, survival is significantly lower than in patients without a foot ulcer; Interventions to reduce foot ulceration should be implemented for all haemodialysis patients and include frequent inspection, and prompt treatment. Further research should focus on the prevention of foot ulcers in dialysis dependent patients. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298805	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298805	smoking
Respirology (Carlton, Vic.)	Letter from Brazil: The ongoing challenges of tobacco smoking.	 	2019	eng	Letter	Australia	31298772	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298772	smoking
European journal of public health	A systematic review of trial-based economic evaluations of internet- and mobile-based interventions for substance use disorders.	The systematic review has been registered in the PROSPERO database (no. CRD42018099486).	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298687	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298687	smoking
Journal of health communication	Effects of E-cigarette Advertising Message Form and Cues on Cessation Intention: An Exploratory Study.	A common message in e-cigarette advertising is that e-cigarettes can be used anywhere. E-cigarette advertisements often express this message implicitly (e.g., "Whenever, wherever") alongside images of e-cigarettes that physically resemble combustible cigarettes. These implicit messages and "cigalike" images may cross-cue combustible cigarette smoking cognitions and behavior. This exploratory study was a 2 (message form: implicit or explicit e-cigarette use anywhere message) by 2 (presence or absence of e-cigarette cue) experiment with U.S. adult smokers (n = 2,201). Participants were randomized to view e-cigarette advertisements that varied by study condition. Three combustible cigarette outcomes were investigated: smoking cessation intention, smoking urges, and immediate smoking behavior. Mediation analysis was also performed to investigate mechanisms of the message form effect through descriptive and normative beliefs about smoking. Compared to its explicit counterpart, the implicit e-cigarette use anywhere message evoked greater smoking urges. Participants exposed to the implicit message also perceived cigarette smoking to be more prevalent and, in turn, reported greater cessation intention. There was no evidence of e-cigarette cue or message form × cue interaction effects. Implicit e-cigarette use anywhere messages may create a predisposition towards smoking compared to their explicitly written counterparts, but whether this effect undermines cessation deserves further attention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298632	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298632	smoking
COPD	Dietary Patterns and Prevalence of Post-bronchodilator Airway Obstruction in Dairy Farmers Exposed to Organic Dusts.	Exposure to organic dusts is an independent causative factor of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Unhealthy dietary patterns have been associated with poor lung function in smokers. This study investigated whether dietary patterns were associated with post-bronchodilator airway obstruction, a hallmark of COPD, in dairy farmers exposed to organic dusts. All subjects were identified by screening programs and patients with airflow obstruction were matched with subjects with normal spirometry. Six groups were compared, defined by their exposures (non-smoking dairy farmers, smokers ≥ 10 pack-years with no occupational exposure, and smoking dairy farmers) and the presence or absence of post-bronchodilator airflow obstruction, resulting in 321 study subjects. The Alternative Healthy Eating Index (AHEI) score was calculated based on an adapted food frequency questionnaire. Mean total AHEI scores were similar in all groups. Comparison between smokers with post-bronchodilator airway obstruction and subjects with post-bronchodilator airway obstruction related to occupational exposure found minimal differences in dietary patterns: dairy farmers had lower scores for the ratio of white to red meat and higher scores for cereal fiber consumption. As in previous studies, smokers with post-bronchodilator airway obstruction exhibited higher lipid intakes and lower carbohydrate intakes than their counterparts with normal spirometry. No evidence of any meaningful difference in dietary patterns was found between subjects with post-bronchodilator airway obstruction detected by screening and healthy controls, either in dairy farmers or in smokers with no occupational exposure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298600	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298600	smoking
Journal of the Turkish German Gynecological Association	Prognostic factors, survival outcomes and surgical practices when dealing with uterine sarcomas: 8 years of clinical experience	This study serves to inform clinicians about the outcome of various uterine sarcoma’s which were diagnosed and managed at our center. We have found that 35.3% of our patients were alive and in remission, 11.8% were alive with disease, 29.4% were lost to follow up, while 23.5% of patients having died.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31298514	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298514	smoking
European review for medical and pharmacological sciences	Derivation of a simple clinical model to categorize the probability of acute myocardial infarction in patients with atrial fibrillation.	Our scoring system is a simple and accurate way of predicting the risk of AMI in AF patients. Therefore, more accurate targeting of preventive therapy will be allowed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31298395	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298395	smoking
European review for medical and pharmacological sciences	Correlation between COX-2 gene polymorphism and susceptibility to nasopharyngeal carcinoma.	COX-2-1195 gene polymorphism is associated with susceptibility to NPC. Smoking and EB virus infection are major risk factors for NPC, both of which can affect COX-2-1195 gene polymorphism.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31298328	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298328	smoking
Nicotine & tobacco research : official journal of the Society for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco	Electronic Cigarette Use and Cigarette Abstinence Over Two Years among U.S. Smokers in the Population Assessment of Tobacco and Health Study.	Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) could benefit public health if they help current smokers to stop smoking long term, but evidence that they do so, particularly from observational "real world" studies, is limited. In this nationally-representative longitudinal cohort study of U.S. adult cigarette smokers, daily e-cigarette use, compared to no e-cigarette use, was associated with a 77% increased odds of prolonged cigarette smoking abstinence over the subsequent two years. Regular use of e-cigarettes may help some smokers to stop smoking combustible cigarettes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298296	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298296	smoking
Revista espanola de salud publica	[Smoking control in Spain: current situation and priorities].	Este trabajo presenta un análisis estratégico de la prevención del tabaquismo en España. A partir de una revisión de la situación de la epidemia y de las políticas de prevención vigentes con los datos disponibles en el año 2019, se plantean los problemas prioritarios para mejorar la prevención del tabaquismo, proponiendo unas estrategias y acciones clave para el futuro. Considerando como grandes objetivos evitar el inicio en el tabaquismo y ayudar a los fumadores a dejar el consumo de tabaco, se valoran las diversas estrategias de actuación y las acciones clave a desarrollar. Además de ayudar a los fumadores a dejar de fumar desde los servicios sanitarios, destacan como acciones clave de prevención diversas políticas públicas como la política fiscal, la prohibición de la publicidad y otras formas de promoción, la regulación de los envases del tabaco, la generalización de los espacios sin humo, y la información a la ciudadanía sobre sus efectos perjudiciales. Algunas han seguido una evolución favorable en España, pero en otras hay amplio margen de mejora. La estrategia MPOWER de la Organización Mundial de la Salud ofrece una guía para el desarrollo de las políticas más efectivas de control del tabaquismo. A su luz, se recomienda poner énfasis en acciones relativas a ampliar las normas sobre aire limpio, en desarrollar servicios de apoyo a distancia para dejar de fumar, en realizar periódicamente campañas publicitarias de amplia cobertura para fomentar el abandono del tabaco, en reforzar el apoyo para dejar de fumar desde los servicios sanitarios, en financiar los tratamientos farmacológicos, en ampliar la prohibición de la publicidad de tabaco a los dispositivos electrónicos que liberan nicotina, y en incrementar la carga fiscal sobre el conjunto de labores de tabaco y otros productos con nicotina.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31298227	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298227	smoking
JMIR serious games	Figure Correction: Exploring Efficacy of a Serious Game (Tobbstop) for Smoking Cessation During Pregnancy: Randomized Controlled Trial.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.2196/12835.].	2019	eng	Published Erratum	Canada	31298219	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298219	smoking
COPD	Depressive Symptoms Are Associated with Self-Reported Physical Limitations That Are Activity Dependent in a Cross-Sectional Analysis of Subjects with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.	One in four patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has depression. However, the effect of depressive symptoms on self-reported physical function among patients with COPD is not fully defined. We tested the hypothesis that depressive symptoms among patients with COPD are associated with increased self-reporting of physical limitations in a nationally representative sample of adults living in the USA. We sampled 775 adults with obstructive lung disease and history of regular smoking from 2007 to 2012 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Multivariable logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios for the association between depressive symptoms and self-reported difficulty performing three activities. We used a Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) score ≥ 10 to define depressive symptoms. Covariates in the multivariable analysis were age, gender, percent predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second, current smoking, low-income status, and number of co-morbidities. In models predicting any difficulty walking a quarter mile, walking up 10 stairs, and walking between rooms on a level surface, adjusted odds ratio estimates (95% CI) for depressive symptoms were 2.03 (1.06, 3.88), 3.40 (1.77, 6.50), and 4.92 (2.29, 10.60), respectively. The presence of depressive symptoms was associated with increased self-reported difficulty with physical activities in our sample. Unexpectedly, the effect of depressive symptoms was greater with easier activities in our sample. These results suggest that depressive symptoms are associated with activity-dependent self-reporting of physical limitations among patients with COPD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298042	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298042	smoking
Zhongguo xiu fu chong jian wai ke za zhi = Zhongguo xiufu chongjian waike zazhi = Chinese journal of reparative and reconstructive surgery	[Analysis of risk factors related to periprosthetic infection after breast augmentation].	糖尿病、吸烟及术后发生乳房碰撞是假体隆乳术后发生假体周围感染的危险因素。.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31298009	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298009	smoking
The journal of obstetrics and gynaecology research	Magnetocardiographic identification of prolonged fetal corrected QT interval in women receiving treatment for opioid use disorder.	Novel data from this small sample demonstrate prolongation of fetal corrected QT in women with OUD participating in buprenorphine assisted therapy. Additional investigation from a larger sample is needed to clarify if fetal buprenorphine and/or tobacco exposure is associated with changes in fetal QT which would warrant further prenatal and postnatal testing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31297963	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297963	smoking
Journal of surgical oncology	Perioperative antibiotherapy should replace prophylactic antibiotics in patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy preceded by preoperative biliary drainage.	Systematic perioperative ABT in patients undergoing PD preceded by PBD may reduce deep surgical infections and the length of hospital stay.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297827	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297827	smoking
Archives of women's mental health	Maternal behavioral health symptom profiles in early family life: complexity and context.	Behavioral health problems affect at least 15% of mothers, but few studies have examined how different problems cluster together. Characterizing symptom profiles and their correlates early in the family life cycle can extend existing understanding beyond that provided by studies based on single problems. Mothers in the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing study, a national birth cohort of racially diverse and mostly unmarried mothers (N = 4205), reported depression, anxiety, and substance dependence symptoms. Latent class analysis (LCA) identified mothers' symptom profiles in their children's third year. We explored associations between symptom profiles and demographics, reproductive health outcomes, functional limitations, and postpartum behavioral health. LCA identified five profiles: (1) Depression only (14.5% of sample), (2) Severe depression and anxiety (5.3%), (3) Anxiety only (2.2%), (4) Depression and substance use (1.4%), and (5) Currently symptom free (76.6%). Depressive symptoms were more moderate when co-occurring with substance dependence and more severe when co-occurring with anxiety. Postpartum depression, postpartum anxiety, and smoking during pregnancy were the most robust correlates of being symptomatic in year 3. Mothers in the "Severe depression and anxiety" group were more likely to be in that profile if they reported functional impairment and/or relationship dissolution. Mothers in the "Depression only" profile were more likely to have higher parity and/or functional impairment. A quarter of mothers of young children had significant behavioral health symptoms, with most reporting depression symptoms. Psychosocial and physical health factors in the pregnancy and postpartum periods were associated with future symptoms, warranting obstetrician and pediatrician attention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Austria	31297651	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297651	smoking
Lung	A Polymorphism rs6726395 in Nrf2 Contributes to the Development of Emphysema-Associated Age in Smokers Without COPD.	A polymorphism rs6726395 in Nrf2 can contribute to the development of emphysema-associated aging in smokers. The Nrf2 SNP may be a predictive factor for smoking-induced emphysema, and genotyping of Nrf2 SNP may serve as biomarker for emphysema prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297601	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297601	smoking
International journal of public health	Health asset profiles and health indicators among 13- and 15-year-old adolescents.	Adolescents differ in their asset profiles. Having multiple health assets appears to protect adolescents from risky behaviour or poor health, and to promote positive health. There is a need for health initiatives to develop a range of health-protecting and health-promoting assets, rather than focus on only one.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31297559	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297559	smoking
Current health sciences journal	The Impact of the Risk Factors in the Evolution of the Patients with Left Main Coronary Artery Stenosis Treated with PCI or CABG.	The aim of our study was to identify the cardiovascular risk factors present in patients with left main coronary artery disease (LMCAD), which influenced the progression of these patients in both percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We performed a clinical observational descriptive study in which, during three years, we followed the evolution of 81 patients who were diagnosed with left main coronary artery disease and who were treated either by interventional revascularization by stent implantation, by surgical revascularization by performing an aortic-coronary bypass. In our study the risk factors according to which the evolution of the patients was observed were represented by diabetes, smoking, age and gender. The primary endpoint was mortality from any cause and other clinical endpoints were the reduction of left ventricular ejection fraction, symptomatic ischemic heart disease manifested by angina pectoris, non-procedural myocardial infarction or need for repeated revascularization. In our study diabetes was the risk factor that negatively influenced the evolution of patients with LMCAD treated either by PCI or by CABG for the most part, followed by smoking, male gender and age over 65 years.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Romania	31297258	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297258	smoking
BMJ open gastroenterology	Current smoking habits in British IBD patients in the age of e-cigarettes.	Patients with IBD show similar smoking behaviour to the general population. E-cigarettes were used as replacement for cigarettes or by some as an intermediate step for smoking cessation. Larger, prospective studies are required to fully determine the effects of e-cigarettes on IBD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31297234	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297234	smoking
Clinical chemistry	Correlation of Breath and Blood Δ	THC can be reliably detected throughout the presumed 3-h impairment window following controlled administration of smoked cannabis. The findings support breath THC concentrations as representing a physiological process and are correlated to blood concentrations, albeit with a shorter window of detection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296552	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296552	smoking
BMJ (Clinical research ed.)	Perinatal care: mental health support expands but weight and smoking services "extremely disappointing".	 	2019	eng	Letter	England	31296497	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296497	smoking
Trends in genetics : TIG	Templated Insertions: A Smoking Gun for Polymerase Theta-Mediated End Joining.	A recognized source of disease-causing genome alterations is erroneous repair of broken chromosomes, which can be executed by two distinct mechanisms: non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) and the recently discovered polymerase theta-mediated end joining (TMEJ) pathway. While TMEJ has previously been considered to act as an alternative mechanism backing up NHEJ, recent work points to a role for TMEJ in the repair of replication-associated DNA breaks that are excluded from repair through homologous recombination. Because of its mode of action, TMEJ is intrinsically mutagenic and sometimes leaves behind a recognizable genomic scar when joining chromosome break ends (i.e., 'templated insertions'). This review article focuses on the intriguing observation that this polymerase theta signature is frequently observed in disease alleles, arguing for a prominent role of this double-strand break repair pathway in genome diversification and disease-causing spontaneous mutagenesis in humans.	2019	eng	Review	England	31296341	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296341	smoking
BMC pulmonary medicine	Effects of low-dose computed tomography on lung cancer screening: a systematic review, meta-analysis, and trial sequential analysis.	In meta-analysis based on sufficient evidence demonstrated by TSA suggests that LDCT screening is superiority over usual care in lung cancer survival. The benefit of LDCT is expected to be heavily influenced by the risk of lung cancer in the different target group (smoking status, Asian) being screened.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296196	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296196	smoking
Chronobiology international	Factors associated with excessive daytime sleepiness among Brazilian adolescents.	This study aimed to verify the prevalence and factors associated with excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) among adolescents. In all, 1.132 people participated. They were aged between 14 and 19 years, of both sexes and they came from a city in southern Brazil. Many socio-demographic variables were collected (sex, age group, socioeconomic status, period of study, year of school and work), also variables related to their health (level of physical activity, alcohol intake, smoking, misuse of medicines, stress control, duration of sleep, sedentary behavior and self-rated health) and EDS, through the Pediatric Daytime Sleepiness Scale (PDSS). The prevalence of EDS in general sample was 54.2% and average score in PDSS was 16.0 (5.7). Comparing results between both sexes, female sex presents the higher prevalence of EDS (64.3%) and greatest average PDSS score 17.5 (5.4) compared to male sex (35.7%) with 14.5 (5.6%) score (	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296060	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296060	smoking
African journal of primary health care & family medicine	Evolution of attitudes, trends and perceptions of smoking among middle and secondary school students in the Gharb Region, Morocco, 2010-2015.	 This study reports the general positive evolution in knowledge about smoking and its effects. Despite that the prevalence of smokers increased in 2015. The results suggest the need to address family influences on adolescent smoking and to investigate participation of schools in education and training students in tobacco dependence prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31296013	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296013	smoking
Epidemiologia e prevenzione	[SENTIERI: Epidemiological Study of Residents in National Priority Contaminated Sites. Fifth Report].	The main findings of SENTIERI Project have been the detection of excesses for the diseases which showed an a priori epidemiological evidence of a causal association with the environmental exposures specific for each considered NPCS. These observations are valuable within public health, because they contribute to priority health promotion activities. Looking ahead, the health benefits of an improved environmental quality might be appreciated in terms of reduction of the occurrence of adverse health effects attributable to each Site major pollutant agents. Due to the methodological approach of the present study, it was not possible to adjust for several confounding factors reported to be risk factors for the studied diseases (e.g., smoking, alcohol consumption, obesity). Even if excesses of mortality, hospitalization, cancer incidence, and prevalence of congenital anomalies were found in several NPCSs, the study design and the multifactorial aetiology of the considered diseases do not permit, for all of them, to draw conclusions in terms of causal links with environmental contamination. Moreover, it must be taken into consideration that economic factors and the availability of health services may also play a relevant role in a diseases outcome. A few observations regarding some methodological limitations of SENTIERI Project should be made. There is not a uniform environmental characterisation of the studied NPCSs in term of quality and detection of the pollutants, because this information is present in different databases which at present are not adequately connected. Moreover, the recognition of a contaminated site as a National Priority Site is based on soil and groundwater pollution, and the available information on air quality is currently sparse and not homogenous. Another limitation, in term of statistical power, is the small population size of many NPCSs and the low frequency of several health outcomes. A special caution must be paid in data interpretation when considering the correspondence between the contaminated areas and the municipality boundaries, as they do not always coincide perfectly: in some cases, a small municipality with a large industrial site, while in other settings only a part of the municipality is exposed to the sources of pollution. Furthermore, all available health information systems are currently accessible at municipality level. The real breakthrough is essentially comprised of the development and fostering of a networking system involving all local health authorities and regional environmental protection agencies operating in the areas under study. The possibility to integrate the geographic approach of SENTIERI Project with a set of ad hoc analytic epidemiological investigations, such as residential cohort studies, case control studies, children health surveys, biomonitoring surveys, and with socioepidemiological studies, might greatly contribute to the identification of health priorities for environmental remediation activities. Finally, as discussed in the last section of the report, there is a need to adopt, in each NPCS, a two-way oriented communication plan involving public health authorities, scientific community, and resident population, taking into account that the history, the cultural frame and the network of relationships specific of each local context play a major role in the risk perception perspective.	2019	ita	Journal Article	Italy	31295974	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295974	smoking
Cells	Mucosa-Environment Interactions in the Pathogenesis of Rheumatoid Arthritis.	Mucosal surfaces play a central role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Several risk factors, such as cigarette smoking, environmental pollution, and periodontitis interact with the host at the mucosal level, triggering immune system activation. Moreover, the alteration of microbiota homeostasis is gaining increased attention for its involvement in the disease pathogenesis, modulating the immune cell response at a local and subsequently at a systemic level. Currently, the onset of the clinical manifest arthritis is thought to be the last step of a series of pathogenic events lasting years. The positivity for anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) and rheumatoid factor (RF), in absence of symptoms, characterizes a preclinical phase of RA-namely systemic autoimmune phase- which is at high risk for disease progression. Several immune abnormalities, such as local ACPA production, increased T cell polarization towards a pro-inflammatory phenotype, and innate immune cell activation can be documented in at-risk subjects. Many of these abnormalities are direct consequences of the interaction between the environment and the host, which takes place at the mucosal level. The purpose of this review is to describe the humoral and cellular immune abnormalities detected in subjects at risk of RA, highlighting their origin from the mucosa-environment interaction.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31295951	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295951	smoking
International journal of surgery case reports	Bilateral spontaneous simultaneous femoral neck occult fracture in a middle-aged man due to osteoporosis and vitamin D deficiency osteomalacia: A case report and literature review.	All patients who present with spontaneous hip pain should be evaluated for osteoporosis and osteomalacia and assessed for underlying occult fracture if they report groin pain or difficulty in walking, even when findings from plain X-ray are normal, to improve prognosis in this rare and serious condition.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31295706	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295706	smoking
PloS one	Lifestyle predictors of successful aging: A 20-year prospective HUNT study.	Lifestyle factors predicted an overall measure of SA, as well as the individual components, more than 20 years later. Modifiable risk factors in midlife, exemplified by social support, may be used for interventions to promote overall health and specific aspects of health in aging.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295289	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295289	smoking
MMWR. Morbidity and mortality weekly report	Workplace Secondhand Tobacco Smoke Exposure Among U.S. Nonsmoking Workers, 2015.	Secondhand tobacco smoke (SHS) exposure contributes to ill health and disease, including heart disease, lung cancer, and stroke (1). Although cigarette smoking has declined among U.S. workers, workplace exposure to SHS remains high, particularly among workers in certain industries, such as construction (2,3). Implementation of smoke-free laws has proven to be beneficial in reducing SHS exposure in general (1). CDC analyzed data from the 2015 National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) Occupational Health Supplement to assess the prevalence of self-reported workplace SHS exposure among nonsmoking workers by smoke-free policy status in the workers' states of residence and in detailed industry categories and subcategories. In 2015, 19.9% of nonsmoking workers reported any exposure to SHS at work during the 12 months preceding the interview, and 10.1% reported frequent exposure (twice a week or more). Nonsmoking workers who resided in states with comprehensive smoke-free laws in all three categories of venues (private worksites, bars, and restaurants) were least likely to report frequent exposure to workplace SHS. Nonsmoking workers employed in the commercial and industrial machinery and equipment repair and maintenance industry reported the highest prevalences of any workplace SHS exposure (65.1%), whereas the construction industry had the highest reported number of exposed workers (2.9 million); these industry categories/subcategories include outdoor workplaces and other settings that are unlikely to be protected by smoke-free laws. Identifying specific at-risk workplaces and implementing targeted intervention strategies could help reduce SHS exposure at work and protect workers' health.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295233	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295233	smoking
Nutrition and cancer	Dairy Product Consumption and Bladder Cancer Risk: A Meta-Analysis.	To explore the potential relationship between dairy product consumption and bladder cancer risk, we retrieved eligible studies published up to March 15, 2018, via online database search and manual review of the selected articles. Summary relative risk (RR) estimates were calculated using random-effects models based on high to low intake values. Inter-study heterogeneity was explored using stratified analyses of study design, geographic region, or whether studies adjusted for the confounders age, sex, body mass index, smoking, and education level. We extracted data from 16 studies on milk (5,193 subjects) and 10 studies on dairy products (20,434 subjects). The total study population included 220,952 individuals. Dairy product intake and bladder cancer risk were significantly associated, and milk intake and bladder cancer risk more so. Stratified analysis revealed that the trend was more pronounced in case-control studies, and in studies with impact factor <3 and in Asia. The relationship was confirmed after adjusting for sex and Newcastle-Ottawa Scale score of 7 and 8. Our study shows an inverse association between milk consumption and bladder cancer risk.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31295044	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295044	smoking
American journal of medical genetics. Part A	Descriptive and risk factor analysis of nonsyndromic sacral agenesis: National Birth Defects Prevention Study, 1997-2011.	Sacral agenesis is a rare birth defect characterized by partial or complete absence of the sacrum. We sought to (a) describe case characteristics, (b) estimate birth prevalence, and (c) identify risk factors for nonsyndromic sacral agenesis using data from the National Birth Defects Prevention Study (NBDPS). The NBDPS was a population-based, case-control study involving pregnancies with estimated dates of delivery from October 1997 through December 2011. We estimated birth prevalence using all NBDPS eligible cases. Using self-reported maternal exposure information, we conducted multivariable logistic regression analysis to identify potential risk factors overall and among women without diabetes. The birth prevalence of sacral agenesis was 2.6/100,000 live births. In the multivariable analysis, multifetal pregnancy, pre-existing Type 1 diabetes, and pre-existing Type 2 diabetes were positively and significantly associated with sacral agenesis, albeit estimates were imprecise. Preexisting Type 1 diabetes was the strongest risk factor (adjusted odds ratio = 96.6, 95% confidence interval = 43.5-214.7). Among women without diabetes, periconceptional smoking was positively and significantly associated with sacral agenesis. Our findings underscore the importance of smoking cessation programs among women planning pregnancy and the importance of better understanding the role of glycemic control before and during pregnancy when designing interventions for primary prevention of sacral agenesis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294918	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294918	smoking
Journal of clinical hypertension (Greenwich, Conn.)	A cardiovascular risk prediction model for older people: Development and validation in a primary care population.	Cardiovascular risk prediction is mainly based on traditional risk factors that have been validated in middle-aged populations. However, associations between these risk factors and cardiovascular disease (CVD) attenuate with increasing age. Therefore, for older people the authors developed and internally validated risk prediction models for fatal and non-fatal CVD, (re)evaluated the predictive value of traditional and new factors, and assessed the impact of competing risks of non-cardiovascular death. Post hoc analyses of 1811 persons aged 70-78 year and free from CVD at baseline from the preDIVA study (Prevention of Dementia by Intensive Vascular care, 2006-2015), a primary care-based trial that included persons free from dementia and conditions likely to hinder successful long-term follow-up, were performed. In 2017-2018, Cox-regression analyses were performed for a model including seven traditional risk factors only, and a model to assess incremental predictive ability of the traditional and eleven new factors. Analyses were repeated accounting for competing risk of death, using Fine-Gray models. During an average of 6.2 years of follow-up, 277 CVD events occurred. Age, sex, smoking, and type 2 diabetes mellitus were traditional predictors for CVD, whereas total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, and systolic blood pressure (SBP) were not. Of the eleven new factors, polypharmacy and apathy symptoms were predictors. Discrimination was moderate (concordance statistic 0.65). Accounting for competing risks resulted in slightly smaller predicted absolute risks. In conclusion, we found, SBP, HDL, and total cholesterol no longer predict CVD in older adults, whereas polypharmacy and apathy symptoms are two new relevant predictors. Building on the selected risk factors in this study may improve CVD prediction in older adults and facilitate targeting preventive interventions to those at high risk.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294917	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294917	smoking
Nicotine & tobacco research : official journal of the Society for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco	Genome-Wide Meta-Analyses of FTND and TTFC Phenotypes.	Understanding the genetic architecture of cigarette smoking and ND is critical to develop effective prevention and treatment. Our study identified novel candidates and biological pathways involved in FTND and TTFC phenotypes, and this will facilitate further investigation of these candidates and pathways.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31294817	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294817	smoking
Physiotherapy theory and practice	Relationship between symptomatic pelvic organ prolapse and respiratory muscle strength in middle-aged and older women in Northeast Brazil: a cross-sectional study.	Some respiratory muscles work in synergy with the pelvic floor (PF). Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is characterized by weak PF muscles and has been associated with worse pulmonary ventilation function in women. To date no studies have investigated the association between respiratory muscle strength and POP. This study aimed to determine whether symptomatic POP is associated with respiratory muscle strength in middle-aged and older women. In this observational cross-sectional study, 204 community-dwelling women (41-80 years old) from Santa Cruz (Northeastern Brazil) provided information on socioeconomic characteristics, health behavior, reproductive history and symptomatic POP via a structured questionnaire. A digital manometer was used to measure their maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressures (MIP and MEP). Multiple linear regression analyses, adjusted for covariates (age, income, education, body mass index, and smoking), evaluated the association between POP and MIP/MEP. The results show that 14.7% of the sample reported symptomatic POP. These women exhibited lower mean MIP and MEP than those reporting no POP, but the intergroup difference was only significant for MEP (	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31294670	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294670	smoking
