 	Recurrently Breaking Genes in Neural Progenitors: Potential Roles of DNA Breaks in Neuronal Function, Degeneration and Cancer	The repair of mammalian DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) by classical non-homologous end joining (C-NHEJ) suppresses genomic instability and cancer and is required for development of the immune and nervous system. We hypothesize that proper repair of neural DSBs via C-NHEJ or other end-joining pathways is critical for neural functionality and homeostasis over time and that improper DSB repair could contribute to complex psychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we summarize various findings made by our laboratory and others over the years that support this hypothesis. This evidence includes, most recently, our discovery of a set of genes, of which most serve neural functions, that can serve as targets of recurrent DSBs in primary neural stem and progenitor cells. We also present a speculative model, based on our findings, of mechanisms by which recurrent DSBs in neural genes can generate neuronal diversity and contribute to neuropsychiatric disease.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314445	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314445	cancer
 	Adnexal Diseases	Adnexal masses are a common clinical finding and may present symptomatically or incidentally. Most adnexal masses are benign and most can be confidently characterized on ultrasound. The common ovarian lesions, including physiological cysts, endometrioma, benign cystic teratoma, and cystadenoma, should be readily recognized. Malignant lesions are much less common, but recognition is important to ensure referral to a specialist center. MRI is advocated for problem-solving in the case of a sonographically indeterminate adnexal mass. An algorithmic approach to MRI interpretation is advocated. Risk stratification of adnexal masses, either on US or on MRI, can help the clinician to plan the most appropriate treatment for the patient.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314383	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314383	cancer
 	Focal Liver Lesions	Contrast-enhanced multiphasic MDCT is the most important liver imaging technique in many institutions. When evaluating solid focal liver lesions, disease characterization is based on assessment of contrast enhancement pattern. If a lesion shows peripheral and nodular enhancement, with the density of enhancing portions similar to the vasculature, a hemangioma can be confidently diagnosed. Arterial phase hypervascular lesions include FNH, adenoma, HCC, and metastases from NET, melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, and (sometimes) breast cancer. In general, HCC is considered in a setting of cirrhosis or chronic liver disease. An MR examination of the liver routinely includes dynamic contrast-enhanced pulse sequences and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). DWI’s main clinical benefit is the detection of focal liver lesions, which may be missed on conventional and contrast-enhanced imaging sequences. Liver-specific MR contrast agents have been shown to increase the detection of liver metastases and improve the characterization of FNH and adenoma, as well as the characterization of equivocal lesions in cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314381	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314381	cancer
 	Renal Tumors	Cystic and solid renal masses can be imaged with ultrasound, CT, and MRI, with contrast enhancement needed to optimize renal mass detection and characterization. Most very small renal masses cannot be characterized due to their size. Because the overwhelming majority of these are benign, follow-up is suggested only when these masses appear heterogeneous. CT and MRI are able to predict which cystic renal masses are most likely to be malignant. CT and MRI can identify macroscopic fat in the vast majority of angiomyolipomas, allowing for differentiation from other solid renal masses. Although some solid renal masses without macroscopic fat may contain distinct combinations of imaging features, there is much overlap, and biopsy will often be required for diagnosis. CT and MRI are accurate in staging renal cancers, predicting whether partial nephrectomy can be performed successfully, and for imaging patients after treatment. Unique patterns of metastatic disease response can be encountered after treatment of metastatic renal cancer with targeted chemotherapeutic agents. Radiologists must be aware of these patterns as well as of the imaging appearance of newly emerging treatment complications.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314380	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314380	cancer
 	Diseases of the Upper GI Tract	Diseases of the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract can be evaluated by a variety of imaging modalities, including barium fluoroscopy, CT, ultrasound, MR, PET-CT, PET-MR, and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). Fluoroscopic examinations remain helpful for detecting a variety of benign conditions, especially in the esophagus, whereas cross-sectional imaging techniques are particularly useful for diagnosing and staging malignant tumors. This review therefore first considers radiologic evaluation of nonneoplastic conditions and then neoplastic conditions of the upper GI tract.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314379	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314379	cancer
 	Diseases of the Colon and Rectum: CT Colonography	Current concepts in CT colonography will be highlighted, including discussions on proper technique, data related to patient acceptance, safety, the prevalence of extracolonic findings and their significance, and the practitioners’ responsibility for maintaining high-quality outcomes.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314375	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314375	cancer
 	Imaging of Testicular and Scrotal Masses: The Essentials	For many radiologists, requests for imaging evaluation of testicular or scrotal symptoms and physical exam findings may cause some degree of uneasiness, for two main reasons: first, the number of tumor entities and tumor-like lesions in the testes and scrotum is relatively large and their histopathologic classification is complex (Table 1) and second, case volume of scrotal studies for non-emergency indications may be relatively low in some centers. In this chapter, we provide basic strategies to extract information from imaging pertinent to some of the most commonly encountered clinical scenarios in the evaluation of the testes and scrotum.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314374	cancer
 	Malignant Diseases of the Uterus	This chapter highlights the role of imaging, particularly magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT), as a “compass” along the therapeutic path in patients with malignant diseases of the uterus.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314370	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314370	cancer
 	Adrenal Imaging	This is an overview of adrenal imaging and an approach to evaluating incidental and suspected adrenal masses in a variety of clinical scenarios. With the continuing increased utilization of CT, the detection of incidental, asymptomatic adrenal masses (incidentalomas) has increased, with the overwhelming majority being benign. But in the setting of a known malignancy, differentiation between a metastases and adenoma is essential to guide management. In this chapter, we describe the imaging techniques to differentiate benign from malignant lesions and provide an algorithmic approach of workup of an adrenal mass.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314366	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314366	cancer
 	Benign Diseases of the Colon and Rectum (incl. CT colonography)	Benign diseases of the colon and rectum include a heterogeneous spectrum of various neoplastic as well as nonneoplastic conditions. Polypoid as well as stenotic lesions include benign adenomatous polyps, various non-adenomatous polypoid findings, and stenotic lesions, commonly seen in chronic diverticular disease. These lesions are detected best by CT colonography, a powerful noninvasive test to evaluate the intraluminal aspect of the entire colon, both for colorectal cancer screening and incomplete colonoscopy. The heterogeneous group of inflammatory colonic diseases includes acute diverticular disease, colonic involvement in chronic inflammatory bowel disease, and colonic infectious and noninfectious colitis. Because of the risk of perforation, these conditions are evaluated with standard cross-sectional imaging techniques. This contribution summarizes benign conditions of the colon and rectum that can be detected during CTC and routine cross-sectional imaging techniques. Diagnostic imaging of the colon and the rectum has undergone a remarkable evolution over the last few decades. Routine cross-sectional imaging techniques, such as standard abdominal CT scans provide.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314364	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314364	cancer
 	Transplant Preparation	HSCT is a complex procedure, which involves a long and complicated pathway for the patient and the intervention of many health professionals. Within this multidisciplinary team, the transplant coordinator, usually a nurse, is the ‘essential marrow’, the heart and the vital backbone of this procedure; they are an essential transplant ingredient facilitating a fluidity of the pathway and a good transmission of information. Written information about the procedure is beneficial for patients either prior to clinic visit or during clinic to allow the patients and relatives to reflect on conversations. Transplantation carries a significant risk of morbidity and mortality, and these should be considered regarding the ‘need’ to transplant, based upon risk of disease, versus risk of the transplant. Pre-transplant assessments must also be undertaken, and the results of these along with suitable donor medical clearance and cell availability are essential to ascertain that transplant is a valid option and can proceed safely. Dealing with fertility preservation upon diagnosis of cancer is often challenging; this issue is even more complex for paediatric patients. PDWP recommends that counselling about fertility preservation opportunities should be offered to each patient receiving HSCT. This chapter will also focus on vascular access for optimal treatment of haematology patients because stem cell treatment cannot be performed without it. Constant advances in haematology have raised challenging ethical dilemmas concerning end of life, palliative care, patient information, donor concerns and impartiality and issues related to the risk we run to our patients. Nurses provide a key role in patient education, providing pre- and post-transplant advocacy and counselling, plan hospitalisations and consultations. They also act as educators and role models to nursing students and share knowledge in accordance with local policies and JACIE guidelines.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314318	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314318	cancer
 	Principles of Conditioning Therapy and Cell Infusion	Prior to haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), conditioning therapy is used for disease eradication, creation of space for engraftment and immunosuppression. Conditioning therapy includes combinations of chemotherapy, radiotherapy and/or immunotherapy. Chemotherapy is delivered in different phases: induction, consolidation and maintenance. Total body irradiation (TBI) is widely used as part of conditioning regimens preceding allogeneic HSCT and is able to target sanctuary sites where some drugs cannot reach. Cancer immunotherapy treatment harnesses the body’s natural defences to fight the cancer, by involving components of the immune system. Conditioning therapy can have acute and chronic side effects due to the toxicity of the treatment. Nursing implications involve patient education and information, toxicity assessments, close monitoring and action plans. Stem cell infusion is usually a safe procedure but can cause adverse reactions ranging from flushing and nausea to life-threatening reactions. There should be written policies for the administration of cellular therapy products, and nurses must have training and competency in order to safely administer haematopoietic stem cells.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314314	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314314	cancer
 	 	This open access book visualizes mortality dynamics in the Lexis diagram. While the standard approach of plotting death rates is also covered, the focus in this book is on the depiction of rates of mortality improvement over age and time. This rather novel approach offers a more intuitive understanding of the underlying dynamics, enabling readers to better understand whether period- or cohort-effects were instrumental for the development of mortality in a particular country. Besides maps for single countries, the book includes maps on the dynamics of selected causes of death in the United States, such as cardiovascular diseases or lung cancer. The book also features maps for age-specific contributions to the change in life expectancy, for cancer survival and for seasonality in mortality for selected causes of death in the United States. The book is accompanied by instructions on how to use the freely available R Software to produce these types of surface maps. Readers are encouraged to use the presented tools to visualize other demographic data or any event that can be measured by age and calendar time, allowing them to adapt the methods to their respective research interests. The intended audience is anyone who is interested in visualizing data by age and calendar time; no specialist knowledge is required.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314233	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314233	cancer
 	 	As America's most populous state goes, so goes the nation. And within that state, the 38 counties comprising South Texas--a highly populated, largely Hispanic area characterized by high uninsured rates and low numbers of health care providers--are emblematic of nationwide crises in public health. The South Texas Health Status Review: A Health Disparities Roadmap brings health care disparities to light in instructive detail. Over thirty key health conditions and risk factors, such as breast cancer, diabetes, obesity, tuberculosis, smoking and alcohol use, lead exposure, birth defects, and homicide rates, are analyzed by age, sex, race/ethnicity, and location (urban or rural), and the results compared with the rest of Texas and the nation as a whole. A section on conclusions and recommendations outlines factors contributing to these conditions and offers suggestions for improvement. These important data should stimulate further population studies and provide impetus for targeted public health interventions and community outreach programs to reduce health inequities and advance care access in the state and the U.S. at large. Major health issues covered in the report include: • Communicable diseases • Cancer incidence and mortality • Maternal and child health • Chronic diseases • Behavioral risk factors in adults • Environmental health issues • Suicide, homicide, and vehicular mortality. The South Texas Health Status Review contains valuable lessons for researchers in health promotion and health disparities, as well as community health professionals. Policymakers involved in reducing health disparities will find it especially useful.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314218	cancer
Medical physics	Fully Automated Identification of Skin Morphology in Raster-Scan Optoacoustic Mesoscopy using Artificial Intelligence.	SkinSeg demonstrated unique potential in identifying skin layers. The proposed method may facilitate clinical evaluation, monitoring and diagnosis of diseases linked to skin inflammation, diabetes and skin cancer. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315162	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315162	cancer
Journal of labelled compounds & radiopharmaceuticals	An improved kit formulation for one pot synthesis of [	Radiolabeled Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) peptide derivatives have immense potential for non-invasive monitoring of malignancies over-expressing integrin α	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31315149	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315149	cancer
Immunology	Genetic Reprogramming For NK cell Cancer Immunotherapy with CRISPR/Cas9.	Natural killer cells are potent cytotoxic lymphocytes specialized in recognizing and eliminating transformed cells, and in orchestrating adaptive anti-tumour immunity. However, NK cells are usually functionally exhausted in the tumour microenvironment. Strategies such as checkpoint blockades are under investigations to overcome NK cell exhaustion in order to boost anti-tumour immunity. The discovery and development of the CRISPR/Cas9 technology offer a flexible and efficient gene editing capability in modulating various pathways that mediate NK cell exhaustion, and in arming NK cells with novel chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) to specifically target tumour cells. Despite the high efficiency in its gene editing capability, difficulty in the delivery of the CRISPR/Cas9 system remains a major bottleneck for its therapeutic applications, particularly for NK cells. The current review discusses feasible approaches to deliver the CRISPR/Cas9 systems, as well as potential strategies in gene editing for NK cell immunotherapy for cancers. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Review	England	31315144	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315144	cancer
Psychotherapie, Psychosomatik, medizinische Psychologie	[Resilience in Long-Term Cancer Survivors - Associations with Psychological Distress and Sociodemographic Characteristics].	Vor allem Patienten mit einer geringen Resilienz benötigen langfristige Unterstützung bei der Verarbeitung der Krebserkrankung und eine Einbindung in psychosoziale Nachsorge-Programme (Cancer-Survivorship-Care-Pläne).	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31315142	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315142	cancer
Public health genomics	Beyond Public Health Genomics: Can Big Data and Predictive Analytics Deliver Precision Public Health?	The field of public health genomics has matured in the past two decades and is beginning to deliver genomic-based interventions for health and health care. In the past few years, the terms precision medicine and precision public health have been used to include information from multiple fields measuring biomarkers as well as environmental and other variables to provide tailored interventions. In the context of public health, "precision" implies delivering the right intervention to the right population at the right time, with the goal of improving health for all. In addition to genomics, precision public health can be driven by "big data" as identified by volume, variety, and variability in biomedical, sociodemographic, environmental, geographic, and other information. Most current big data applications in health are in elucidating pathobiology and tailored drug discovery. We explore how big data and predictive analytics can contribute to precision public health by improving public health surveillance and assessment, and efforts to promote uptake of evidence-based interventions, by including more extensive information related to place, person, and time. We use selected examples drawn from child health, cardiovascular disease, and cancer to illustrate the promises of precision public health, as well as current methodologic and analytic challenges to big data to fulfill these promises.	2019	eng	News	Switzerland	31315115	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315115	cancer
Cell reports	Breast Cancer Classification Based on Proteotypes Obtained by SWATH Mass Spectrometry.	Accurate classification of breast tumors is vital for patient management decisions and enables more precise cancer treatment. Here, we present a quantitative proteotyping approach based on sequential windowed acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra (SWATH) mass spectrometry and establish key proteins for breast tumor classification. The study is based on 96 tissue samples representing five conventional breast cancer subtypes. SWATH proteotype patterns largely recapitulate these subtypes; however, they also reveal varying heterogeneity within the conventional subtypes, with triple negative tumors being the most heterogeneous. Proteins that contribute most strongly to the proteotype-based classification include INPP4B, CDK1, and ERBB2 and are associated with estrogen receptor (ER) status, tumor grade status, and HER2 status. Although these three key proteins exhibit high levels of correlation with transcript levels (R > 0.67), general correlation did not exceed R = 0.29, indicating the value of protein-level measurements of disease-regulated genes. Overall, this study highlights how cancer tissue proteotyping can lead to more accurate patient stratification.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315058	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315058	cancer
Cell reports	Comprehensive Immune Monitoring of Clinical Trials to Advance Human Immunotherapy.	The success of immunotherapy has led to a myriad of clinical trials accompanied by efforts to gain mechanistic insight and identify predictive signatures for personalization. However, many immune monitoring technologies face investigator bias, missing unanticipated cellular responses in limited clinical material. We present here a mass cytometry (CyTOF) workflow for standardized, systems-level biomarker discovery in immunotherapy trials. To broadly enumerate immune cell identity and activity, we established and extensively assessed a reference panel of 33 antibodies to cover major cell subsets, simultaneously quantifying activation and immune checkpoint molecules in a single assay. This assay enumerates ≥98% of peripheral immune cells with ≥4 positively identifying antigens. Robustness and reproducibility are demonstrated on multiple samples types, across two research centers and by orthogonal measurements. Using automated analysis, we identify stratifying immune signatures in bone marrow transplantation-associated graft-versus-host disease. Together, this validated workflow ensures comprehensive immunophenotypic analysis and data comparability and will accelerate biomarker discovery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315057	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315057	cancer
Cell reports	A Chemical Screen Identifies Compounds Capable of Selecting for Haploidy in Mammalian Cells.	The recent availability of somatic haploid cell lines has provided a unique tool for genetic studies in mammals. However, the percentage of haploid cells rapidly decreases in these cell lines, which we recently showed is due to their overgrowth by diploid cells present in the cultures. Based on this property, we have now performed a phenotypic chemical screen in human haploid HAP1 cells aiming to identify compounds that facilitate the maintenance of haploid cells. Our top hit was 10-Deacetyl-baccatin-III (DAB), a chemical precursor in the synthesis of Taxol, which selects for haploid cells in HAP1 and mouse haploid embryonic stem cultures. Interestingly, DAB also enriches for diploid cells in mixed cultures of diploid and tetraploid cells, including in the colon cancer cell line DLD-1, revealing a general strategy for selecting cells with lower ploidy in mixed populations of mammalian cells.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315040	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315040	cancer
Immunity	Inflammation and Cancer: Triggers, Mechanisms, and Consequences.	Inflammation predisposes to the development of cancer and promotes all stages of tumorigenesis. Cancer cells, as well as surrounding stromal and inflammatory cells, engage in well-orchestrated reciprocal interactions to form an inflammatory tumor microenvironment (TME). Cells within the TME are highly plastic, continuously changing their phenotypic and functional characteristics. Here, we review the origins of inflammation in tumors, and the mechanisms whereby inflammation drives tumor initiation, growth, progression, and metastasis. We discuss how tumor-promoting inflammation closely resembles inflammatory processes typically found during development, immunity, maintenance of tissue homeostasis, or tissue repair and illuminate the distinctions between tissue-protective and pro-tumorigenic inflammation, including spatiotemporal considerations. Defining the cornerstone rules of engagement governing molecular and cellular mechanisms of tumor-promoting inflammation will be essential for further development of anti-cancer therapies.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31315034	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315034	cancer
Immunity	Pas de Deux: Control of Anti-tumor Immunity by Cancer-Associated Inflammation.	In many settings, tumor-associated inflammation, supported mainly by innate immune cells, contributes to tumor growth. Initial innate activation triggers secretion of inflammatory, regenerative, and anti-inflammatory cytokines, which in turn shape the adaptive immune response to the tumor. Here, we review the current understanding of the intricate dialog between cancer-associated inflammation and anti-tumor immunity. We discuss the changing nature of these interactions during tumor progression and the impact of the tissue environment on the anti-tumor immune response. In this context, we outline important gaps in current understanding by considering basic research and findings in the clinic. The future of cancer immunotherapy and its utility depend on improved understanding of these interactions and the ability to manipulate them in a predictable and beneficial manner.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31315033	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315033	cancer
Expert review of proteomics	Glycosylation and its implications in breast cancer.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314995	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314995	cancer
International forum of allergy & rhinology	Sinonasal mucoepidermoid carcinoma: a review of the National Cancer Database.	Mucoepidermoid carcinoma is the most common salivary gland malignancy but a rare sinonasal malignancy, with 5-year survival for SN-MEC approximating 50%. A significant proportion of patients present with advanced disease. Both socioeconomic factors and tumor characteristics are associated with survival.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314958	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314958	cancer
Cancer medicine	Impact on health-related quality of life deterioration-free survival of a first-line therapy combining nab-paclitaxel plus either gemcitabine or simplified leucovorin and fluorouracil for patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer: Results of the randomized phase II AFUGEM GERCOR clinical trial.	The nab-paclitaxel plus simplified leucovorin and fluorouracil combination had no negative impact in exploratory HRQoL analyses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314957	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314957	cancer
Clinical and experimental immunology	Diagnostic Value Of Fecal B-cell Activating Factor in Patients with Abdominal Discomfort.	Fecal BAFF has shown a potential ability to be a sensitive screening parameter for IBD and gastrointestinal carcinoma, as well a useful tool to select patients with abdominal discomfort for further endoscopic examinations. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314927	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314927	cancer
Sao Paulo medical journal = Revista paulista de medicina	Risk factors and relationship between screening periodicity and risk of cervical cancer among nurses and midwives. A cross-sectional study.	There is a need to assess motivational barriers that might lead to low levels of Pap smear screening among nurses and midwives who are role models for women regarding cervical cancer prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314871	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314871	cancer
Sao Paulo medical journal = Revista paulista de medicina	Cardiovascular and cancer mortality in Brazil from 1990 to 2017.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	Brazil	31314870	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314870	cancer
PloS one	Effect of polyunsaturated fatty acids on proliferation and survival of prostate cancer cells.	Progression of prostate cancer to lethal forms is marked by emergence of hormone-independent proliferation of the cancer cells. Nutritional and epidemiological studies have indicated that prostate cancer progression is correlated with the consumption of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA). To shed additional light on the cell-level mechanisms of the observed correlation, we compared the sensitivity of hormone-dependent and hormone-independent prostate cancer cells to growth medium supplementation with free PUFAs in a cell proliferation and viability assay. Our data show that the hormone-dependent cells are comparatively insensitive to various PUFAs, at the same time as the growth and viability of hormone-independent cells lines are strongly inhibited by most of the tested PUFAs, whether n-3 or n-6. We speculate that this difference may be at least partially responsible for the observed effects of specific dietary lipids in prostate cancer. The new data strengthen the case for dietary intervention as part of potential new therapeutic strategies seeking to impede prostate cancer progression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314803	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314803	cancer
PloS one	Nuclear morphometrics and chromatin condensation patterns as disease biomarkers using a mobile microscope.	Current cancer diagnosis involves the use of nuclear morphology and chromatin condensation signatures for accurate advanced stage classification. While such diagnostic approaches rely on high resolution imaging of the cell nucleus using expensive microscopy systems, developing portable mobile microscopes to visualize nuclear and chromatin condensation patterns is desirable at clinical settings with limited infrastructure. In this study, we develop a portable fluorescent mobile microscope capable of acquiring high resolution images of the nucleus and chromatin. Using this we extracted nuclear morphometric and chromatin texture based features and were able to discriminate between normal and cancer cells with similar accuracy as wide-field fluorescence microscopy. We were also able to detect subtle changes in nuclear and chromatin features in cells subjected to compressive forces, cytoskeletal perturbations and cytokine stimulation, thereby highlighting the sensitivity of the portable microscope. Taken together, we present a versatile platform to exploit nuclear morphometrics and chromatin condensation features as physical biomarkers for point-of-care diagnostic solutions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314779	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314779	cancer
PloS one	Toll-like receptor 1 predicts favorable prognosis in pancreatic cancer.	Strong TLR1 expression suggested better prognosis in PDAC patients, whereas negative expression of TLR1, TLR3, TLR7, or TLR9 was a sign of poor prognosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314777	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314777	cancer
The Permanente journal	Mastectomy or Breast-Conserving Therapy: Which Factors Influence A Patient's Decision?	Physical examination findings and tumor size were statistically significant determinants influencing patients to choose mastectomy. Because geographic and practice style explanations fail to explain these variations, surgeons can identify, anticipate, and consider these factors when counseling patients about mastectomy and BCT therapeutic equivalency.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314719	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314719	cancer
The Permanente journal	Are Perceived Stress and Cytokine Genotypes Clinically Feasible as Predictors of Psychoneuroimmune Symptoms in Advanced Cancer?	Perceived stress performed better than cytokine genotypes as a clinical predictor of PNI symptoms in this small-scale study. Assessing perceived stress is an easy and low-cost approach that can be used to identify patients at high risk of PNI symptom development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314714	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314714	cancer
Journal of psychosocial oncology	Coping and its relationship to post-traumatic growth, emotion, and resilience among adolescents and young adults impacted by parental cancer.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314713	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314713	cancer
Journal of women's health (2002)	Mammography Screening Practices in Average-Risk Women Aged 40-49 Years in Primary Care: A Comparison of Physician and Nonphysician Providers in Minnesota.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314684	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314684	cancer
Journal of women's health (2002)	Geographic Co-Occurrence of Mesothelioma and Ovarian Cancer Incidence.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314677	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314677	cancer
LGBT health	Comparing the Mental Health of Sexual Minority and Heterosexual Cancer Survivors: A Systematic Review.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314662	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314662	cancer
Journal of women's health (2002)	A Randomized Clinical Trial Comparing the Impact of a Web-Based Multimedia Intervention Versus an Educational Pamphlet on Patient Outcomes in Breast Cancer Survivors with Chronic Secondary Lymphedema.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314661	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314661	cancer
Journal of women's health (2002)	Personalized Care in the Prevention of Treatment-Related Cardiac Dysfunction in Female Cancer Survivors.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314650	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314650	cancer
Journal of interferon & cytokine research : the official journal of the International Society for Interferon and Cytokine Research	Evaluation of Serum and Salivary Interleukin-6 and Interleukin-8 Levels in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	This meta-analysis aimed to assess the salivary and serum concentrations of IL-6 and IL-8 in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients compared to the controls. Four electronic databases (Scopus, PubMed, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science) were searched up to January 2019. The study quality was checked according to the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. The mean difference (MD) plus 95% confidence interval (95%CI) were calculated using RevMan 5.3 software. The publication bias and sensitivity analysis were done using CMA 2.0 software. Out of 309 studies retrieved from the 4 databases, 26 studies were analyzed in the present meta-analysis. In this meta-analysis, the pooled MD in the OSCC patients compared to the controls was 19.06 pg/mL (95%CI: 14.78-23.33) for the serum IL-6 level, 199.14 pg/mL (95%CI: 47.39-350.89) for the serum IL-8 level, 122 pg/mL (95%CI: 64-179) for the salivary IL-6 level, and 958 pg/dL (95%CI: 718-1197) for the salivary IL-8 level. All values in this meta-analysis were statistically significant. In conclusion, according to the meta-analysis results, the serum and salivary IL-6 and IL-8 levels in OSCC patients were significantly elevated compared to the controls, and both cytokines can be useful as potential biomarkers in early OSCC diagnosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314647	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314647	cancer
Journal of adolescent and young adult oncology	Cancer, Sex, Drugs and Death: A Guide for the Psychological Management of Young People with Cancer by Dr. Toni Lindsay.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314642	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314642	cancer
Journal of adolescent and young adult oncology	Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor of the Prostate with Notalgia and Paraplegia as the Initial Symptoms: A Case Report and Literature Review.	Primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) is a rare and highly malignant neoplasm composed of small round cells, which frequently occurs in children and adolescents. PNET originating from the prostate is even rarer. We report a case of PNET of the prostate with notalgia and paraplegia as the initial symptoms. Positron emission tomography-computed tomography scanning showed hypodense and hypermetabolism on the prostate; subsequently, we ascertained the diagnosis by transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsy. The patient underwent local vertebral radiotherapy combined with five courses of systematic chemotherapy. Disease progressed after 11 months, and the overall survival was 17 months.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314635	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314635	cancer
Journal of medical economics	Healthcare resource utilization and costs associated with patients prescribed afatinib or erlotinib as first-line therapy for EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC in the United States.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314630	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314630	cancer
International journal of food sciences and nutrition	Grain consumption and risk of gastric cancer: a meta-analysis.	This study evaluated the relationship between grain consumption and the risk of gastric cancer. A total of 19 studies met the inclusion criteria. For whole grain consumption, there was a 13% reduction in the risk of gastric cancer (	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314629	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314629	cancer
Critical reviews in clinical laboratory sciences	Production of CAR T-cells by GMP-grade lentiviral vectors: Latest advances and future prospects.	Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells represent a paradigm shift in cancer immunotherapy and a new milestone in the history of oncology. In 2017, the Food and Drug Administration approved two CD19-targeted CAR T-cell therapies (Kymriah™, Novartis, and Yescarta™, Kite Pharma/Gilead Sciences) that have remarkable efficacy in some B-cell malignancies. The CAR approach is currently being evaluated in multiple pivotal trials designed for the immunotherapy of hematological malignancies as well as solid tumors. To generate CAR T-cells 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314617	cancer
Expert opinion on pharmacotherapy	Initial systemic chemotherapeutic and targeted therapy strategies for the treatment of colorectal cancer patients with liver metastases.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314604	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314604	cancer
Cancer biotherapy & radiopharmaceuticals	Downregulated Long Noncoding RNA GAS5 Fails to Function as Decoy of CEBPB, Resulting in Increased GDF15 Expression and Rapid Ovarian Cancer Cell Proliferation.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314588	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314588	cancer
DNA and cell biology	microRNA-183-3p Inhibits Progression of Human Prostate Cancer by Downregulating High-Mobility Group Nucleosome Binding Domain 5.	microRNAs are a class of noncoding RNAs that play important roles in cancer progression. microRNA-183-3p (miR-183-3p) is a novel microRNA that is dysregulated in many kinds of cancers. Our previous studies found high expression and oncologic role of high-mobility group nucleosome binding domain 5 (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314587	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314587	cancer
Cancer biotherapy & radiopharmaceuticals	Genomics-Guided Immunotherapy for Precision Medicine in Cancer.	Next-generation sequencing (NGS) data have been central to the development of targeted therapy and immunotherapy for precision oncology. In targeted therapy, drugs directly attack cancer, by altering the expression of critical cancer genes identified with cancer genome profiling. Immunotherapy drugs indirectly attack cancer, by inducing the immune system to attack and treat cancer. Harnessing genomic data for deployment and development of immunotherapy comprises the field of immunogenomics. The discovery of a link between cancer cells escaping immune destruction and cancer progression, led to extensive research into this mechanism and drug development. In the past few years, FDA has granted accelerated approval to several immunotherapy cancer treatment drugs, pembrolizumab, nivolumab, and atezolizumab, belonging to the class of checkpoint inhibitors. Utilization of pretreatment genomic cancer screening to identify patients most likely to respond to immunotherapy and to customize immunotherapy for a given patient, promises to improve cancer treatment outcomes. Recent advances in molecular profiling, high-throughput sequencing, and computational efficiency has made immunogenomics the major tenet of precision medicine in cancer treatment. This review provides a brief overview on the state of art of immunogenomics in precision cancer medicine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314580	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314580	cancer
Journal of alternative and complementary medicine (New York, N.Y.)	Feasibility and Acceptability of Mindfulness-Based Group Visits for Smoking Cessation in Low-Socioeconomic Status and Minority Smokers with Cancer.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314565	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314565	cancer
Journal of alternative and complementary medicine (New York, N.Y.)	Improving Access to Integrative Oncology Through Group Medical Visits: A Pilot Implementation Project.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314561	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314561	cancer
Journal of alternative and complementary medicine (New York, N.Y.)	Survivorship Wellness: Insights from an Interdisciplinary Group-Based Survivorship Pilot Program at a Comprehensive Cancer Center.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314557	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314557	cancer
Journal of alternative and complementary medicine (New York, N.Y.)	Group Acupuncture Model in a Cancer Institute: Improved Access and Affordability.	Cancer patients may experience significant symptom mitigation from acupuncture. However, this service may not be easily accessible or affordable at all cancer institutions. The development of a group acupuncture program provided one institution with improved availability, lower cost to patients, and a foundation for oncology acupuncture research. This care delivery model was deployed at a large southeastern cancer institution within a multistate academic-community hybrid hospital system. The cancer institute serves >15,000 patients annually. Acupuncture is provided through the institute's Integrative Medicine section of the Department of Supportive Oncology. The purpose of this commentary is to describe the successful transition from an individual to group acupuncture model at this cancer institute. With the implementation of group acupuncture, patient visits increased 275% from individual care delivery. Although successful implementation of a group acupuncture model may be affordable and clinically positive, the authors also share unique challenges learned through the development and expansion of this program.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314555	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314555	cancer
DNA and cell biology	Association Between Two Polymorphisms in the Promoter Region of miR-143/miR-145 and the Susceptibility of Lung Cancer in Northeast Chinese Nonsmoking Females.	Lung cancer is known to cause high mortality and morbidity. The study aimed to explore the association between rs3733845 and rs3733846 polymorphisms in the promoter region of miR-143/145 and the risk of lung cancer among 575 nonsmoking cases and 575 cancer-free controls in a Chinese female population. We genotyped two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the promoter region of miR-143/145 in 575 cases and 575 controls using TaqMan allelic discrimination method. Logistic regression analysis was conducted to assess the association between polymorphisms in the promoter of miR-143/miR-145 and risk of lung cancer females. Crossover analysis was used to explore the interaction between the two SNPs and environmental risk factors (cooking oil fume exposure and passive smoking exposure). The results showed that both rs3733845 and rs3733846 polymorphisms were associated with an increased lung adenocarcinoma risk in dominant model (adjusted odds ratio [OR] = 1.329, 95% confidence intervals [CIs] = 1.026-1.723, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314552	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314552	cancer
Assay and drug development technologies	High-Content Screening Identifies New Inhibitors of Connexin 43 Gap Junctions.	Gap junctions (GJs) are dynamic structures composed of hexamers of connexins (Cxs), a class of transmembrane proteins enabling channel-mediated direct intercellular communication through cell-cell diffusion of ions and small metabolites. In defined conditions, Cxs also work as hemichannels allowing exchanges between the cytoplasm and the extracellular medium. The most common GJ channel is formed by connexin 43 (Cx43) and plays an important role in physiological and pathological processes in excitable tissues, such as heart and brain. Hence, Cx43 has been largely envisioned as a new therapeutic target in cancer, neurological and psychiatric indications, or cardiovascular diseases. Identifying new pharmacological inhibitors of Cx43 GJs with different mechanisms of action and from diverse chemical classes is thus highly challenging. We present here a high-content screening method, based on the evaluation of fluorescent dye transfer rates between adjacent cells to monitor the function of GJs in U251 glioblastoma cells expressing high levels of Cx43. This assay was validated using well-described pharmacological GJ inhibitors such as mefloquine. The method was adapted to screen a library of 1,280 Food and Drug Administration- and European Medicines Agency-approved drugs that led to the selection of both known and new inhibitors of GJ channel function. We further focused on a specific class of microtubule-targeting agents, confirming that a proper tubulin network is required for functional Cx43 GJ channels.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314551	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314551	cancer
JCO clinical cancer informatics	Automating the Capture of Structured Pathology Data for Prostate Cancer Clinical Care and Research.	We show that a real-world deployment of an NLP algorithm to extract pathology data and structured data entry by clinicians during routine clinical care in a busy clinical practice can generate accurate data when compared with manual abstraction for some, but not all, components of a prostate pathology report.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314550	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314550	cancer
Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Methods for the Watch the Spot Trial: A Pragmatic Trial of More vs. Less Intensive Strategies for Active Surveillance of Small Pulmonary Nodules.	Small pulmonary nodules are most often managed by surveillance imaging with chest computed tomography (CT), but the optimal frequency and duration of surveillance are unknown. The Watch the Spot Trial is a multi-center, pragmatic, comparative effectiveness trial with cluster randomization by hospital or health system that compares more vs. less intensive strategies for active surveillance of small pulmonary nodules. The study plans to enroll approximately 35,200 patients with a small pulmonary nodule that is newly detected on chest CT, either incidentally or by screening. Study protocols for more and less intensive surveillance were adapted from published guidelines. The primary outcome is the percentage of cancerous nodules that progress beyond American Joint Committee on Cancer 7th edition (AJCC 7) stage T1aN0M0. Secondary outcomes include patient-reported anxiety and emotional distress, nodule-related health care utilization, radiation exposure, and adherence with the assigned surveillance protocol. Distinctive aspects of the trial include: (1) the pragmatic integration of study procedures into existing clinical workflow; (2) the use of cluster-randomization by hospital or health system; (3) the implementation and evaluation of a system-level intervention for protocol-based care; (4) the use of highly efficient, technology-enabled methods to identify and (passively) enroll participants; (5) reliance on data collected as part of routine clinical care, including data from electronic health records and state cancer registries; (6) linkage with state cancer registries for complete ascertainment of the primary study outcome; and (7) intensive engagement with a diverse group of patient and non-patient stakeholders in the design and execution of the study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314549	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314549	cancer
Journal of proteome research	Clinically Applicable Deep Learning Algorithm Using Quantitative Proteomic Data.	Deep learning (DL), a type of machine learning approach, is a powerful tool for analyzing large sets of data that are derived from biomedical sciences. However, it remains unknown whether DL is suitable for identifying contributing factors, such as biomarkers, in quantitative proteomics data. In this study, we describe an optimized DL-based analytical approach using a data set that was generated by selected reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (SRM-MS), comprising SRM-MS data from 1008 samples for the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer, to test its classification power. Its performance was compared with that of 5 conventional multivariate and machine learning methods: random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), logistic regression (LR), k-nearest neighbors (k-NN), and naïve Bayes (NB). The DL method yielded the best classification (AUC 0.9472 for the test data set) of all approaches. We also optimized the parameters of DL individually to determine which factors were the most significant. In summary, the DL method has advantages in classifying the quantitative proteomics data of pancreatic cancer patients, and our results suggest that its implementation can improve the performance of diagnostic assays in clinical settings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314536	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314536	cancer
Biomacromolecules	Glyconanoparticles for Targeted Tumor Therapy of Platinum Anticancer Drug.	An important requirement to decrease the side effects of chemotherapy drugs is to develop nanocarriers with precise biological functions. In this work, a set of glyconanoparticles was prepared via self-assembly of amphiphilic glycoblock copolymers for the targeted delivery of a hydrophobic chemotherapy drug. Well-defined glycoblock copolymers that consist of 1,1-di-tert-butyl 3-(2-(metyloyloxy)ethyl)-butane-1,1,3-tricarboxylate (MAETC) together with three different protected-sugar moieties (β-D-glucopyranoside, β-D-mannopyranoside, and β-L-fucopyranoside) were synthesized by using RAFT polymerization. Copolymers were deprotected and conjugated with the cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum (II) (cis-Pt) anticancer drug. Dynamic light scattering (DLS) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements revealed that cis-Pt conjugated glyconanoparticles were sufficiently stable under physiological conditions and had diameters of approximately 100 nm with considerably narrow size distributions. They were intracellularly taken up by the breast cancer (MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231), prostate cancer (PC3), renal cancer (769-P) and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell lines. PC3 and 769-P cell lines showed a high preference for the glycosylated nanoparticles. Glycoblock copolymers were found nontoxic, but showed high cytotoxicity and increased efficacy after conjugation with cis-Pt anticancer drug. Moreover, in vitro cytotoxicity assays in cancer cell lines demonstrate that cis-Pt loaded glycopolymer-based nanoparticles have a higher cytotoxicity than free cis-Pt. Overall, our results suggest that glyconanoparticles have a great potential to be used as an effective cis-Pt drug carrier for targeted cancer therapy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314508	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314508	cancer
Analytical chemistry	Support Vector Machine Classification of Non-melanoma Skin Lesions based on Fluorescence Lifetime Imaging Microscopy.	Early diagnosis of malignant skin lesions is critical for prompt treatment and clinical prognosis of skin can-cers. However, it is difficult to precisely evaluate the developing stage of non-melanoma skin cancer be-cause they are derived from the same tissues as a result of uncontrolled growth of abnormal squamous keratinocytes in the epidermis layer of the skin. In the present study, we developed a linear-kernel support vector machine (LSVM) model to distinguish basal cell carcinoma (BCC) from actinic keratosis (AK) and Bowen's disease (BD). The input parameters of the LSVM model consist of appropriate lifetime compo-nents and entropy values, which were extracted from two-photon fluorescence lifetime imaging of hema-toxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained biopsy sections. Different features used as inputs for SVM training were compared and evaluated. In constructing the SVM models, features obtained from the lifetime (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314502	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314502	cancer
ACS applied materials & interfaces	Self-Assembled Indomethacin Dimer Nanoparticles Loaded with Doxorubicin for Combination Therapy in Resistant Breast Cancer.	An ortho ester-linked indomethacin (IND) dimer-based nanodrug delivery system was prepared to improve the therapeutic effect of doxorubicin (DOX) by reversing the multidrug resistance. The synthesized dimer (IND-OE) could form stable nanoparticles (IND-OE/DOX) loaded with DOX via single emulsion method. Compare to non-sensitive nanoparticles (IND-C12/DOX), IND-OE/DOX showed a rapid degradation behavior and accelerated drug release at mildly acidic environments. In vitro cell experiments verified that IND-OE nanoparticles could increase DOX concentration due to the efficient intracellular drug release by the degradation of ortho ester as well as reduced DOX efflux by IND-mediated P-gp down-regulating. In vivo studies further demonstrated that IND-OE/DOX displayed the maximized synergetic antitumor efficacy than free DOX or IND-C12/DOX, and the tumor inhibition rate versus saline was 46.78% (free DOX), 60.23% (IND-C12/DOX), and 80.62% (IND-OE/DOX), respectively. Overall, this strategy of combination with chemosensitizers and ortho ester linkage has great potentials to serve as an amplifying chemotherapy platform against various drug-resistant tumors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314480	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314480	cancer
Salud publica de Mexico	Prostate cancer screening in low- and middle- income countries: the Mexican case.	El uso del Antígeno Prostático Específico (APE) para tamizaje para cáncer de próstata sigue siendo tema de amplio debate. La implementación de estrategias de tamiz organizado de cáncer de próstata ha sido un reto en parte porque la prueba de APE se presta para detección oportunista. A medida que aumenta el acceso a las pruebas de detección de cáncer en los países de ingresos bajos y medianos (PIBM), existe la necesidad urgente de evaluar cuidadosamente las estrategias actuales y futuras de detección oportuna de cáncer para garantizar su beneficio y controlar sus costos. Utilizamos los esfuerzos de tamizaje de cáncer de próstata de México para ilustrar los retos para PIBM. Ofrecemos cinco consideraciones dirigidas a tomadores de decisión que permitan contar con estrategias racionales de implementación de tamizaje para cáncer de próstata basado en el uso de APE.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Mexico	31314214	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314214	cancer
Acta gastro-enterologica Belgica	Colorectal cribriform comedo-type adenocarcinoma: a distinct subtype with poor prognosis?	Colorectal cancer is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers in the world. It is a heterogeneous disease with several histologic subtypes, and some of them are associated with adverse prognostic factors. Cribriform comedo-type adenocarcinoma (CCA) has been included as a colorectal adenocarcinoma subtype in the last World Health Organization (WHO) classification of gastrointestinal system tumors. Some authors have linked this subtype to an adverse prognosis, but to the best of our knowledge there is only one previous report assessing its histologic and prognostic features. We herein review a series of CCA of the colon, emphasizing its clinical and morphological features.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Belgium	31314198	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314198	cancer
Acta gastro-enterologica Belgica	Adverse effects of bevacizumab in metastatic colorectal cancer : a case report and literature review.	Colorectal cancer is one of the most frequently diagnosed malignancies worldwide. One of the most important developments in the management of metastatic colorectal cancer is targeted therapy. Bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody inhibiting VEGF induced angiogenesis, has been accepted as safe and efficient in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer for more than a decade. Addition of bevacizumab to fluorouracil-based chemotherapy is also associated with severe adverse events. We present a case of bevacizumab-induced bowel ischaemia associated with gastrointestinal haemorrhage.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Belgium	31314196	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314196	cancer
Acta gastro-enterologica Belgica	Systematic review and meta-analysis : diagnostic accuracy of faecal immunochemical testing for haemoglobin (FIT) in detecting colorectal cancer for both symptomatic and screening population.	For the detection of CRC within the screening population, FIT has high specificity and sensitivity. In the symptomatic group, FIT's high sensitivity (90%) supports its role as a triage test to guide the selection of patients who require urgent lower gastrointestinal tract evaluation.	2019	eng	Review	Belgium	31314191	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314191	cancer
Cancer science	Lipid peroxidation increases hydrogen peroxide permeability leading to cell death in cancer cell lines that lack mtDNA.	Lipid peroxidation is a cause of cell and tissue injury. An important product of plasma membrane lipid peroxidation is HNE. We have established mtDNA-depleted ρ	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314163	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314163	cancer
FEBS open bio	Characterization of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) P848L, an unusual EGFR variant present in lung cancer patients, in a murine Ba/F3 model.	Lung cancer patients with mutations in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) benefit from treatments targeting tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). However, both intrinsic and acquired resistance of tumors to TKIs are common, and EGFR variants have been identified that are resistant to multiple TKIs. In the present study, we characterized selected EGFR variants previously observed in lung cancer patients and expressed in a murine bone marrow pro-B Ba/F3 cell model. Among these EGFR variants, we report that an exon 20 del/ins mutation S768insVGH is resistant to erlotinib (a first-generation TKI), but sensitive to osimertinib (a third-generation TKI). We also characterized a rare exon 21 germ-line variant, EGFR P848L, which transformed Ba/F3 cells and conferred resistance to multiple EGFR-targeting TKIs. Our analysis revealed that P848L 1) does not bind erlotinib, 2) is turned over less rapidly than L858R (a common tumor-derived EGFR mutation), 3) is not autophosphorylated at Tyr-1045 (the major docking site for Cbl proto-oncogene [c-Cbl] binding), and 4) does not bind c-Cbl. Using viability assays including 300 clinically relevant targeted compounds, we observed that Ba/F3 cells transduced with EGFR P848L, S768insVGH, or L858R have very different drug-sensitivity profiles. In particular, EGFR P848L, but not L858R or S768insVGH, was sensitive to multiple Janus kinase (JAK1/2) inhibitors. In contrast, cells driven by L858R, but not by P848L, were sensitive to multikinase MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK) and ERK inhibitors including EGFR-specific TKIs. These observations suggest that continued investigation of rare TKI-resistant EGFR variants is warranted to identify optimal treatments for cancer.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314158	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314158	cancer
Basic & clinical pharmacology & toxicology	BFGF blockade enhances lung cancer cell invasion by activating the AKT/MMP-2/VEGF pathway.	Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) can stimulate cancer cell growth and invasion; however, the influence of bFGF blockade remains unclear. Therefore, we aimed to explore the effects of bFGF blockade on the growth and invasion in A549 (high bFGF expression) and H2122 (low bFGF expression) lung cancer cells. We found that the blocking of bFGF by a neutralizing monoclonal antibody suppressed the growth of A549 cells but not of H2122 cells, as well as strongly induced the invasiveness of A549 cancer cells. Furthermore, bFGF blockade activated the AKT pathway and enhanced the expression levels of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in A549 cells. These responses could be reversed by treatment with AKT inhibitor and siMMP-2, thus indicating the involvement of the AKT/MMP-2/VEGF-positive feedback loop. Finally, we confirmed that the anti-bFGF-induced invasion of cancer cells could be rescued by inhibiting the AKT/MMP-2/VEGF loop. Our results revealed that bFGF blockade suppresses cell growth but promotes cell invasion in lung cancer cells with high bFGF expression levels. Our data further reinforced the importance of the AKT/MMP-2/VEGF loop in regulating anti-bFGF-induced tumour cell invasion, and suggested the limitations of the bFGF-targeting strategy in lung cancer treatment. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314153	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314153	cancer
The Laryngoscope	Enhanced recovery after surgery in head and neck surgery: Reduced opioid use and length of stay.	Level 3 Laryngoscope, 2019.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314144	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314144	cancer
Health reports	Changes in beverage consumption in Canada.	Beverage consumption patterns in Canada changed between 2004 and 2015. Some of these changes are in line with recommendations from the 2007 CFG, the food guide that was available at the time of the 2015 survey.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31314126	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314126	cancer
Acta dermato-venereologica	Solar Lentigines are Associated with Better Outcome in Cutaneous Melanoma.	The rising incidence of cutaneous melanoma and its stable high mortality rates despite innovative cancer care, require better prediction of the clinical outcome. In a large cutaneous melanoma population we explored whether the known clinical risk factors for melanoma susceptibility (nevus phenotype, phototype, family and personal history of melanoma and sun damage) affect melanoma outcomes. A total of 1,530 melanoma patients were included. Multivariable analysis adjusted for age, gender, melanoma stage, localization and subtype showed that familial melanoma, solar lentigines on head and neck, the back of hands, arms and shoulders were associated with a better relapse free survival. The presence of atypical naevi was associated with an increased risk of relapse. After Bonferroni correction, the correlation between presence of solar lentigines on the back of the hands and arms remained the most robust and significant prognostic factor for the relapse free survival in cutaneous melanoma patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Sweden	31314121	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314121	cancer
JAMA surgery	Lymphedema After Breast Cancer Treatment-Not Just the Surgeon's Fault.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314086	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314086	cancer
JAMA surgery	Prediction of Lymph Node Metastasis in Early Gastric Cancer by Collagen Signature-Endoscopists' Viewpoint.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314085	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314085	cancer
JAMA surgery	Prediction of Lymph Node Metastasis in Early Gastric Cancer by Collagen Signature-Endoscopists' Viewpoint-Reply.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314081	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314081	cancer
JAMA surgery	Factors Associated With Lymphedema in Women With Node-Positive Breast Cancer Treated With Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy and Axillary Dissection.	In this study, longer NAC duration and obesity were associated with increased lymphedema incidence, suggesting that patients in these groups may benefit from enhanced prospective lymphedema surveillance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314062	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314062	cancer
Acta biochimica et biophysica Sinica	Downregulation of lncRNA AFAP1-AS1 by oridonin inhibits the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and proliferation of pancreatic cancer cells.	Recent studies have demonstrated that the expression of the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) AFAP1-AS1 in pancreatic cancer is negatively correlated with survival and prognosis. However, the effects of oridonin and lncRNA AFAP1-AS1 on the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and migration of pancreatic cancer cells have not been fully elucidated. Surgery is the only potentially curative method for pancreatic cancer, but postoperative recurrence and metastasis are common. The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of oridonin and lncRNA AFAP1-AS1 silencing on pancreatic cancer cells. The pancreatic cancer cell lines BxPC-3 and PANC-1 cells were transfected with siAFAP1-AS1 and its negative control (siNC). After that, oridonin was used to treat the siAFAP1-AS1-transfected cells. The expression of lncRNA AFAP1-AS1 was downregulated in the pancreatic cancer cell lines BxPC-3 and PANC-1. The apoptosis and cell cycle progression of pancreatic cancer cells were evaluated by flow cytometry and Hoechst 33258 staining. Metastasis and invasion of BxPC-3 and PANC-1 cells were detected by transwell migration assay, real-time cell analysis, and western blot analysis. Cells were transfected with the lentiviral siAFAP1-AS1 and siNC, and tumorigenesis was evaluated in BALB/C nude mice. Immunohistochemical examination was used to verify the effects of oridonin and siAFAP1-AS1 on pancreatic cancer. The results demonstrated that the combination of oridonin and siAFAP1-AS1 inhibited pancreatic cancer cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, arrested cell cycle progression, prevented the migration, regulated EMT-related protein expression in BxPC-3 and PANC-1 cells, and inhibited pancreatic cancer cell tumorigenicity and EMT in nude mice.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31314060	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314060	cancer
Nanoscale	Selective pericellular hydrogelation by the overexpression of an enzyme and a membrane receptor.	The selective formation of nanomedicines around cancer cells is very important for cancer therapy because it increases the inhibitory capacity and decreases the systemic toxicity. However, successful examples are rare. Taking advantage of the overexpression of both the enzyme alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and the cell membrane receptor (CCK2R), we demonstrated in this study the selective formation of supramolecular nanofibers and hydrogels in the pericellular space of two cancer cell lines (HeLa and HepG2 cells). Both cell lines showed high expression levels of extracellular ALP and membrane-bound CCK2R. ALP efficiently converted Comp. 1 to a self-assembling molecule (Comp. 2). Comp. 2 interacted with CCK2R, thereby facilitating the self-assembly and formation of hydrogels around the cancer cells. The selective pericellular hydrogelations efficiently inhibited cancer cells. Pericellular hydrogelation around cancer cells is a promising strategy to control the formation of nanomedicines spatiotemporally in cellular microenvironments for cancer therapy and diagnostics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314031	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314031	cancer
Faraday discussions	Probing the nanoscale organisation and multivalency of cell surface receptors: DNA origami nanoarrays for cellular studies with single-molecule control.	Nanoscale organisation of receptor ligands has become an important approach to study the clustering behaviour of cell-surface receptors. Biomimetic substrates fabricated via different nanopatterning strategies have so far been applied to investigate specific integrins and cell types, but without multivalent control. Here we use DNA origami to surpass the limits of current approaches and fabricate nanoarrays to study different cell adhesion processes, with nanoscale spatial resolution and single-molecule control. Notably, DNA nanostructures enable the display of receptor ligands in a highly customisable manner, with modifiable parameters including ligand number, ligand spacing and most importantly, multivalency. To test the adaptability and robustness of the system we combined it with focused ion beam and electron-beam lithography nanopatterning to additionally control the distance between the origami structures (i.e. receptor clusters). Moreover, we demonstrate how the platform can be used to interrogate two different biological questions: (1) the cooperative effect of integrin and growth factor receptor in cancer cell spreading, and (2) the role of integrin clustering in cardiomyocyte adhesion and maturation. Thereby we find previously unknown clustering behaviour of different integrins, further outlining the importance for such customisable platforms for future investigations of specific receptor organisation at the nanoscale.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314021	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314021	cancer
Aging	GCN-5/PGC-1α signaling is activated and associated with metabolism in cyclin E1-driven ovarian cancer.	GCN-5/PGC-1α signaling is activated and associated with metabolism in Cyclin E1-driven HGSOC. Targeting GCN5 hold promise to augment current CDK2-targeting strategy and further studies are warranted for clinical translation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313989	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313989	cancer
eLife	Brain tumours repurpose endogenous neuron to microglia signalling mechanisms to promote their own proliferation.	Previously we described direct cellular interactions between microglia and AKT1+ brain tumour cells in zebrafish (Chia et al., 2018). However, it was unclear how these interactions were initiated: it was also not clear if they had an impact on the growth of tumour cells. Here, we show that neoplastic cells hijack mechanisms that are usually employed to direct microglial processes towards highly active neurons and injuries in the brain. We show that AKT1+ cells possess dynamically regulated high intracellular Ca	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313988	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313988	cancer
Scandinavian journal of public health	Productivity losses associated with premature mortality due to cancer in Russia: A population-wide study covering 2001-2030.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Sweden	31313982	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313982	cancer
Telemedicine journal and e-health : the official journal of the American Telemedicine Association	Effects of Nurse-Led Support Via 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313973	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313973	cancer
Journal of medicinal food	The Extract of 	We investigated the antitumor effect of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313945	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313945	cancer
Future oncology (London, England)	Effects of dose modifications on the safety and efficacy of dacomitinib for 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313942	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313942	cancer
ACS sensors	Highly Sensitive Detection of Bladder Cancer-Related miRNA in Urine Using Time-Gated Luminescent Biochip.	Detection of biomarkers in complex samples is a significant health plan strategy for medical diagnosis, therapy monitoring and health management. However, high background noise resulted from impurities and other analytes in complex samples has hampered the improvement of detection sensitivity and accuracy. Herein, an ultralow background biochip based on time-gated luminescent probes supported by photonic crystals (PCs) was successfully developed for detection of BC-related miRNA biomarkers with high sensitivity and specificity in urine samples. Coupled with the time-gated luminescence of long-lifetime luminescence probes and the luminescence-enhanced capability of PCs, the short-lived autofluorescence can be efficiently removed, thus the detection sensitivity will be significantly improved. Benefiting from these merits, a detection limit of 26.3 fM is achieved. Furthermore, the biochip exhibits excellent performance in urinary miRNA detection and good recoveries are also obtained. The developed biochip possesses unique properties of ultralow background and luminescence enhancement, thus offering a suitable tool for the detection of BC-related miRNA in urine. With rational design of probe sequences, the biochip holds great potential for many other biomarkers in real patient samples, making it valuable in the areas such as medical diagnosis and disease evaluation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313911	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313911	cancer
NMR in biomedicine	Multiparametric statistical quantification of pH heterogeneity by 	Acid production and transport in numerous biological tissues and medical conditions are active areas of research. Heterogeneity of pH within a given homogeneous-appearing tissue volume has been reported, but none of the conventional methods currently available for measuring tissue pH provides quantitative parameters describing the frequency of occurrence of pH values within such a volume. We have previously presented a multiparametric noninvasive in vivo approach, providing at least 10 different statistical descriptors of pH heterogeneity based on a novel type of line shape analysis developed for pH-sensitive 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313874	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313874	cancer
Journal of cellular physiology	A loop involving NRF2, miR-29b-1-5p and AKT, regulates cell fate of MDA-MB-231 triple-negative breast cancer cells.	The present study shows that nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2) and miR-29b-1-5p are two opposite forces which could regulate the fate of MDA-MB-231 cells, the most studied triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cell line. We show that NRF2 activation stimulates cell growth and markedly reduces reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, whereas miR-29b-1-5p overexpression increases ROS generation and reduces cell proliferation. Moreover, NRF2 downregulates miR-29b-1-5p expression, whereas miR-29b-1-5p overexpression decreases p-AKT and p-NRF2. Furthermore, miR-29b-1-5p overexpression induces both inhibition of DNA N-methyltransferases (DNMT1, DNMT3A, and DNMT3B) expression and re-expression of HIN1, RASSF1A and CCND2. Conversely, NRF2 activation induces opposite effects. We also show that parthenolide, a naturally occurring small molecule, induces the expression of miR-29b-1-5p which could suppress NRF2 activation via AKT inhibition. Overall, this study uncovers a novel NRF2/miR-29b-1-5p/AKT regulatory loop that can regulate the fate (life/death) of MDA-MB-231 cells and suggests this loop as therapeutic target for TNBC.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31313842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313842	cancer
Journal of cellular physiology	SARNP, a participant in mRNA splicing and export, negatively regulates E-cadherin expression via interaction with pinin.	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with a high mortality rate, which is related to the insufficient number of appropriate biomarkers and targets. Therefore, there is an urgent need to discover appropriate biomarkers and targets for TNBC. SARNP (Hcc-1 and CIP29) is highly expressed in several cancers. It binds to UAP56, an RNA helicase component of the TREX complex in messenger RNA (mRNA) splicing and export. However, the role of SARNP in mRNA splicing and export and in the progression of breast cancer, especially of TNBC, remains unknown. Therefore, we examined the role of SARNP in mRNA splicing and export and progression of TNBC. We confirmed that SARNP binds to UAP56 and Aly and that SARNP overexpression enhances mRNA splicing, whereas its knockdown suppressed mRNA export. The SARNP overexpression induced the proliferation of MCF7 cells, whereas its knockdown induced E-cadherin expression and downregulated vimentin and N-cadherin expressions in SK-BR-3 and MDA-MB-231 cells. SARNP downregulates E-cadherin expression by interaction with pinin. Mice injected with MDA-MB-231	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313837	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313837	cancer
International nursing review	Genomics education in nursing in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Mainland China.	Nursing educators in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Mainland China should link with the international nursing community (e.g. Global Genomics Nursing Alliance) and form closer networks to improve education in the area of genetics and genomics. From a policy level, genomics education is suggested to be incorporated in nursing curriculum to enhance nurses' competency in incorporating genetics/genomics service into patient care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313831	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313831	cancer
Chemical senses	Corrigendum: Long-Term Taste Impairment after Intensity-Modulated Radiotherapy to Treat Head-and-Neck Cancer: Correlations with Glossectomy and the Mean Radiation Dose to the Oral Cavity.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313822	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313822	cancer
Translational behavioral medicine	Customer discovery as a tool for moving behavioral interventions into the marketplace: insights from the NCI SPRINT program.	The National Cancer Institute established a dissemination and implementation accelerator program called Speeding Research-tested INTerventions (SPRINT) in order to expedite the translation of behavioral research into practice. The goal of SPRINT is to introduce researchers to a new method for moving their research into practice in order to increase the real-world impact of their evidence-based interventions. The goal of this article is to present case studies on three teams that have completed the SPRINT program to date. Each case study provides a description of the intervention the team came into the program with, the team's motivation for participating in the SPRINT program, the team's experience in the program, lessons learned from "customer discovery" interviews conducted by the team during the course, and the team's future plans for their intervention. The case studies suggest that by focusing on behavioral researchers, SPRINT addresses an unmet need in the commercialization training space; that the definition of "success" can vary across SPRINT projects; that identifying and engaging "payors" for behavioral interventions is an ongoing challenge; and that there are potential "misalignments" between the research process and market demands. Overall, these examples show that customer discovery is a potentially useful method for making interventions more responsive to the needs of stakeholders, and that researchers can benefit from learning the "language" of business and working with individuals who have business experience before trying to move their research from the lab to the real world.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313817	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313817	cancer
Translational behavioral medicine	Care-paradigm shift promoting smoking cessation treatment among cancer center patients via a low-burden strategy, Electronic Health Record-Enabled Evidence-Based Smoking Cessation Treatment.	Tobacco smoking is an important risk factor for cancer incidence, an effect modifier for cancer treatment, and a negative prognostic factor for disease outcomes. Inadequate implementation of evidence-based smoking cessation treatment in cancer centers, a consequence of numerous patient-, provider-, and system-level barriers, contributes to tobacco-related morbidity and mortality. This study provides data for a paradigm shift from a frequently used specialist referral model to a point-of-care treatment model for tobacco use assessment and cessation treatment for outpatients at a large cancer center. The point-of-care model is enabled by a low-burden strategy, the Electronic Health Record-Enabled Evidence-Based Smoking Cessation Treatment program, which was implemented in the cancer center clinics on June 2, 2018. Five-month pre- and post-implementation data from the electronic health record (EHR) were analyzed. The percentage of cancer patients assessed for tobacco use significantly increased from 48% to 90% (z = 126.57, p < .001), the percentage of smokers referred for cessation counseling increased from 0.72% to 1.91% (z = 3.81, p < .001), and the percentage of smokers with cessation medication significantly increased from 3% to 17% (z = 17.20, p < .001). EHR functionalities may significantly address barriers to point-of-care treatment delivery, improving its consistent implementation and thereby increasing access to and quality of smoking cessation care for cancer center patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313808	cancer
Diseases of the esophagus : official journal of the International Society for Diseases of the Esophagus	Circulating human papillomavirus DNA detection in Barrett's dysplasia and esophageal adenocarcinoma.	There is evidence to suggest that human papillomaviruses (HPV) are associated with Barrett's dysplasia and esophageal adenocarcinoma. In other HPV-linked cancers such as cervical and oropharyngeal cancer, circulating HPV DNA is a potential biomarker to assist in tumor diagnosis and management. This study aimed to determine whether circulating HPV DNA was detectable in patients with Barrett's dysplasia and esophageal adenocarcinoma, and if so, whether there is any correlation with esophageal tissue HPV status. Plasma from 138 patients representing esophageal adenocarcinoma (N = 41), Barrett's dysplasia (N = 48) and hospital controls (N = 49) were analyzed for the presence of circulating HPV DNA using droplet-digital PCR targeting the E7 gene of HPV types 16 and 18. Circulating HPV DNA was detected in 11/138 (8.0%) study subjects including 1/49 (2.0%) hospital controls, 4/48 (8.3%) Barrett's dysplasia patients, and 6/41 (14.6%) esophageal adenocarcinoma patients. Detection of circulating HPV DNA was higher in patients with HPV-positive esophageal tissue (6/35, 17.1%) compared to those with HPV-negative specimens (5/103; 4.9%) (OR = 4.06; 95% CI 1.15-14.25; P = 0.020). The highest rates of detection occurred in esophageal adenocarcinoma patients, particularly those with invasive tumors that had breached the esophageal submucosa, had regional lymph node involvement or metastatic disease. Circulating HPV DNA was detectable in a subset of Barrett's dysplasia and esophageal adenocarcinoma patients. Detection was associated with tissue HPV positivity and possibly disease severity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313804	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313804	cancer
The Analyst	Colorimetric and fluorescent dual-mode detection of microRNA based on duplex-specific nuclease assisted gold nanoparticle amplification.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are attractive candidates for biomarkers for early cancer diagnosis, and play vital roles in physiological and pathological processes. In this work, we developed a colorimetric and fluorescent dual-mode sensor for miRNA detection based on the optical properties of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) and the duplex-specific nuclease (DSN)-assisted signal amplification technique. In brief, FAM labelled hairpin probes (HPs) were immobilized on AuNPs, and fluorescence was efficiently quenched by the vicinity of the fluorophores to the AuNPs surface. In the presence of target miRNAs, the HPs could specifically hybridize with miRNAs and the DNA strand in the DNA/RNA heteroduplexes could be subsequently hydrolyzed by DSN. As a result, numbers of fluorophores were released into the solution, resulting in obvious fluorescence signal recovery. Meanwhile, the target miRNAs were able to participate in other hybridization reactions. With the DSN-assisted signal amplification technique, lots of gold nanoparticles were produced with short-chain DNA on their surface, which could aggregate in salt solution and result in a colorimetric detection. The proposed dual-mode strategy offers a sensitive, accurate and selective detection method for miRNAs. One reason is that the stem of the HPs was elaborately designed to avoid hydrolyzation by DSN under optimal conditions, which ensures a relatively low background and high sensitivity. The other is that the dual-mode strategy is more beneficial for enhancing the accuracy and reproducibility of the measurements. Moreover, the unique selective-cutting ability and single-base mismatch differentiation capability of the DSN also give rise to a satisfactory selectivity. This demonstrated that the developed method could quantitatively detect miR-21 down to 50 pM with a linear calibration range from 50 pM to 1 nM, and the analytical assay of target miRNAs in cell lysate samples revealed its great potential for application in biomedical research and clinical diagnostics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313769	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313769	cancer
Biomaterials science	A chloroplast-inspired nanoplatform for targeting cancer and synergistic photodynamic/photothermal therapy.	Specific targeting capabilities and effective phototherapeutic functions are the key demands for precise cancer phototherapeutic agents. Herein, a bioinspired nanoplatform composed of Cu(ii)-chlorophyll-hyaluronic acid nanoparticles (Cu(ii)Chl-HA NPs) was developed for targeting cancer and synergistic photodynamic/photothermal therapy. Inspired by the photonic biosystem of the chloroplast, Cu(ii) chlorophyll was used as a photosensitive substituent to covalently connect with a hydrophilic HA tail rather than a natural phytol tail, and this conjugate further assembled into a nanoparticle-like morphology under non-covalent interaction. Time-dependent density functional theory calculations reveal that the Cu(ii) chlorophyll has a much smaller energy gap between an excited singlet and excited triplet, and theoretically leads to rapid electron intersystem crossing that would benefit the PDT effect. In addition, a series of experiments have proven that, under 650 nm laser irradiation, the nanoplatform of Cu(ii)Chl-HA can produce a high amount of singlet oxygen and exhibit an outstanding photothermal conversion capability. More interestingly, owing to the specific interactions between the HA component and the CD44 receptor on the cell membrane, the HA tails impart Cu(ii)Chl-HA NPs an excellent receptor-mediated targeting performance toward CD44-overexpressing cancer cells. Based on these features, the nanoplatform of Cu(ii)Chl-HA NPs presents active targeting and outstanding dual modality synergistic PDT/PTT performance of cancer both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, this work opens up a new strategy to fabricate a bioinspired multifunctional cancer phototherapy nanoplatform.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313766	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313766	cancer
Journal of public health management and practice : JPHMP	Evaluation of the Cancer Control P.L.A.N.E.T. Web Portal.	Results indicate that P.L.A.N.E.T. is seen as a viable and credible source for cancer control program planning and delivery. A reassessment of P.L.A.N.E.T.'s goals is warranted, which may support reaching out to new audiences, amplifying or removing underutilized resources, and adding additional resources and topics. Consideration for training and tutorials on P.L.A.N.E.T. would benefit partner agencies and build capacity for evidence-based program development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313719	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313719	cancer
Current opinion in urology	Gender differences in oncologic and functional outcomes in patients with bladder cancer undergoing radical cystectomy with urinary diversion.	Future research (clinical trials, assessment of functional outcomes using gender-specific measures) must include women with bladder cancer and raise awareness regarding the gaps in knowledge and care for these patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313715	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313715	cancer
Current opinion in supportive and palliative care	Dietetic assessment and intervention in lung cancer.	There is a paucity of data on dietetic intervention. It is potentially quick, inexpensive and patient specific, using a holistic approach to aid patients who are malnourished or at risk of malnutrition. Lung cancer-related weight loss is common, further strategies are needed to effectively assess and intervene. Dietetic intervention has the potential to improve patients' quality of life and outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313701	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313701	cancer
Medical care	Trends in Regionalization of Care and Mortality For Patients Treated With Radical Cystectomy.	Regionalization of RC to HVH was observed from 2004 to 2013. Treatment at LVH was associated with 66% and 33% relative increases in hazard of death at 30 and 90 days, respectively. These findings support the selective referral of complex cases to higher volume centers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313685	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313685	cancer
American journal of clinical oncology	Exceptional Responders in Oncology: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Patient Level Data.	There were no clinically apparent patient or treatment factors that predicted favorable survival following ERT; instead, reporting of exceptional response appears to be biased.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313679	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313679	cancer
American journal of clinical oncology	Cardiac Toxicity in Operable Esophageal Cancer Patients Treated With or Without Chemoradiation.	The overall rates of grade ≥3 cardiac events were 24.5% in the NA CRT group versus 10% in the surgery group (P=0.04). On MVA, use of NA CRT (P<0.01, hazard ratio [HR]: 3.45, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.35-9.09) predicted for grade ≥3 cardiac events, though no dosimetric variable predicted for grade ≥3 cardiac events or overall survival. On MVA, NA CRT predicted for pericardial effusions of any grade (P<0.01, HR: 3.70, 95% CI: 1.67-8.33). The V45 Gy was the most significant predictor of pericardial effusions (P=0.012, HR: 1.03, 95% CI: 1.01-1.06) CONCLUSIONS:: NA CRT significantly increased the rate of grade ≥3 cardiac events compared with patients treated with surgery alone. Although no dosimetric parameter predicted for grade ≥3 cardiac events or survival, the V45 Gy predicted for pericardial effusions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313677	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313677	cancer
American journal of clinical oncology	Long-Term Vitamin K Antagonists and Cancer Risk: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	The use of long-term VKAs, for any indication, is associated with lower cancer incidence. This finding could have important clinical implications for the choice of oral anticoagulation therapies among specific patients with a higher baseline risk of cancer.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313676	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313676	cancer
Journal of medical engineering & technology	The concept of high dielectric material for the treatment of liver cancer through microwave heating.	Hyperthermia is potentially an effective method for the treatment of cancer tumours. In the present manuscript, improvement in the treatment of liver cancer through electromagnetic heating is studied using high dielectric material through mathematical modelling in COMSOL Multiphysics. It is observed from the result that without increasing the power input, intensity of the temperature can be increased by changing the dielectric constant. Treatment time in ablation of the liver tumour can also be reduced. Results are obtained for total power dissipation density, heat flux, temperature distribution and fraction of necrosis tissue.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313608	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313608	cancer
Future medicinal chemistry	Thiazole in the targeted anticancer drug discovery.	Cancer is known as one of the main causes of death in the world; and many compounds have been synthesized to date with potential use in cancer therapy. Thiazole is a versatile heterocycle, found in the structure of many drugs in use as well as anticancer agents. This review provides an overview of recent advances in thiazole-bearing compounds as anticancer agents with particular emphasis on their mechanism of action in cancerous cells. Chemical designs, structure-activity relationships and relevant preclinical properties have been comprehensively described.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313595	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313595	cancer
Cellular physiology and biochemistry : international journal of experimental cellular physiology, biochemistry, and pharmacology	Targeting the Difficult-to-Drug CD71 and MYCN with Gambogic Acid and Vorinostat in a Class of Neuroblastomas.	A combination therapy with GA and vorinostat may be suitable for MYCN and CD71 overexpressing neuroblastomas.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313541	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313541	cancer
Diagnostic cytopathology	Endoscopic ultrasound guided fine-needle aspiration vs core needle biopsy for solid pancreatic lesions: Comparison of diagnostic accuracy and procedural efficiency.	FNA and CNB had comparable safety and diagnostic accuracy. Use of CNB resulted in less number of passes and shorter procedure time as compared to FNA. Moreover, diagnostic accuracy for CNB with or without ROSE was similar.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313531	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313531	cancer
Asia-Pacific journal of clinical oncology	Clinical concepts for cabazitaxel in the management of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.	Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in male patients. The second-generation taxanes, cabazitaxel, is a therapeutic option with an overall survival advantage for patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. This review explores specific aspects of cabazitaxel including the duration of treatment, the efficacy of lower dose and effect on the incidence of adverse effects, and optimal sequencing of cabazitaxel. A systematic search of data baselines "PubMed, Ovid Medline, Scopus, and Embase" was carried out using the keywords "cabazitaxel" and "metastatic prostate cancer." The search was limited to clinical studies performed after October 2010 addressing duration of treatment, the efficacy of lower dose, adverse effects, the sequence of cabazitaxel in relation to other lines of therapy and use in chemotherapy naïve patients. The current evidence supports the utility and safety of cabazitaxel as either a second- or third-line agent after docetaxel, or as an alternative to docetaxel in the chemotherapy-naive setting. Extended duration of cabazitaxel beyond 10 cycles is feasible and does not appear to lead to cumulative toxicity. In conclusion, cabazitaxel can improve survival in castrate-resistant prostate cancer with an acceptable risk of toxicity. Studies confirmed the efficacy of reduced dose and utility in patients without prior chemotherapy.	2019	eng	Review	Australia	31313526	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313526	cancer
Cytometry. Part A : the journal of the International Society for Analytical Cytology	Two-Dimensional Light Scattering Anisotropy Cytometry for Label-Free Classification of Ovarian Cancer Cells via Machine Learning.	We develop a single-mode fiber-based cytometer for the obtaining of two-dimensional (2D) light scattering patterns from static single cells. Anisotropy of the 2D light scattering patterns of single cells from ovarian cancer and normal cell lines is investigated by histograms of oriented gradients (HOG) method. By analyzing the HOG descriptors with support vector machine, an accuracy rate of 92.84% is achieved for the automatic classification of these two kinds of label-free cells. The 2D light scattering anisotropy cytometry combined with machine learning may provide a label-free, automatic method for screening of ovarian cancer cells, and other types of cells. © 2019 International Society for Advancement of Cytometry.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313517	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313517	cancer
Asian journal of endoscopic surgery	Safety of thoracoscopic esophagectomy after induction chemotherapy for locally advanced unresectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.	TE was safely performed in 23 patients after DCF therapy for locally advanced unresectable ESCC. Induction DCF, followed by TE, could be an alternative treatment for unresectable T4 ESCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31313511	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313511	cancer
Cytometry. Part A : the journal of the International Society for Analytical Cytology	Nanoliposomes Co-Encapsulating Photoswitchable Probe and Photosensitizer for Super-Resolution Optical Imaging and Photodynamic Therapy.	Photosensitizers (PSs) are ideal cancer theranostic drugs that can be administered as both fluorescence imaging reagents and photodynamic therapy (PDT) drugs. To improve the tumoritropic behavior of PSs, nanoliposomes are presently being considered as optimal PSs carriers. Although nanoliposomal PSs have been utilized in clinical therapy, PSs localization and photosensitive processing in nanoliposomal PSs are rarely observed on nanoscale. Investigating changes in the fine structure of nanoliposomes under photosensitive processing will further our understanding of the photosensitive effect on nanoliposomal PSs. In this study, nanoliposomes co-encapsulating the PSs benzoporphyrin derivative monoacid A (BPD) and the photoswitchable probe Cy5-927 were prepared to realize PDT and nanoscale super-resolution optical imaging. The fine structures of nanoliposomal BPD and Cy5-927 (LBC) were visualized by a home-built stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (STORM). Our PDT results showed that the photorelease and PDT efficiency of BPD were not decreased by co-encapsulating with Cy5-927 in LBC. Taken together, LBC can be used as a new optical probe and PDT reagent for investigating changes in nanoliposomes fine structure and micro-interaction in the cellular process of PDT. Therefore, our results deepened our understanding of liposome-based PDT for optimizing cancer treatment. © 2019 International Society for Advancement of Cytometry.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313510	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313510	cancer
Journal of applied clinical medical physics	Can automated treatment plans gain traction in the clinic?	Recently, there has been an increased interest in the feasibility and impact of automation within the field of medical dosimetry. While there have been many commercialized solutions for automatic treatment planning, the use of an application programming interface to achieve complete plan generation for specific treatment sites is a process only recently available for certain commercial vendors. Automatic plan generation for 20 prostate patients was achieved via a stand-alone automated planning script that accessed a knowledge-based planning solution. Differences between the auto plans and clinically treated, baseline plans were analyzed and compared. The planning script successfully initialized a treatment plan, accessed the knowledge-based planning model, optimized the plan, assessed for constraint compliance, and normalized the treatment plan for maximal coverage while meeting constraints. Compared to baseline plans, the auto-generated plans showed significantly improved rectal sparing with similar coverage for targets and comparable doses to the remaining organs-at-risk. Utilization of a script, with its associated time saving and integrated process management, can quickly and automatically generate an acceptable clinical treatment plan for prostate cancer with either improved or similar results compared to a manually created plan.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313508	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313508	cancer
Cancer medicine	Assessment on clinical value of prostate health index in the diagnosis of prostate cancer.	In this study, we performed a comprehensive estimation and assessment for the clinical value of prostate health index (PHI) in diagnosing prostate cancer. Using the bivariate mixed-effect model, we calculated the following parameters and their 95% confidence internals (CIs), including sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio, negative likelihood ratio, diagnostic odds ratio and symmetric receiver operator characteristic. Twenty eligible studies with a total number of 5543 subjects were included in the final analysis. The estimated sensitivity was 0.75 (95% CI: 0.70-0.79) and the specificity was 0.69 (95% CI: 0.58-0.83). The pooled area under the curve was 0.78 (95% CI: 0.74-0.81). The combined positive likelihood ratio was 2.45 (95% CI: 2.19-2.73) and the negative likelihood ratio was 0.36 (95% CI: 0.31-0.43). The diagnostic odds ratio was 6.73 (95% CI: 5.38-8.44). The posttest probability was 40% under the present positive likelihood ratio of 2.45. It seems there was no significant difference between Asian population and Caucasian population population in sensitivity and specificity. But the overlap of AUC 95% CI indicated that the diagnostic accuracy of PHI was slightly higher in the Asian population population setting than that in the Caucasian population population population (0.83 vs 0.76). Similarly, there was also overlap in AUC 95% CI, which suggested that sample size may be one of heterogeneity source. The PHI has a moderate diagnostic accuracy for detecting prostate cancer. The discrimination ability of PHI is slightly prior to free/total prostate-specific antigen. It seems that ethnicity has an influence on the clinical value of PHI in the diagnostic of prostate cancer.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313500	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313500	cancer
Environmental toxicology	Esculetin induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in human colon cancer LoVo cells.	We investigated the anti-cancer effects of ESC in human colon cancer LoVo cells. Cell counting assay results showed that ESC inhibited the proliferation of LoVo cells. Cell cycle arrest results showed that cell cycle was arrested during the G0/G1 phase in the ESC-treated LoVo cells. Western blot results showed that the cell cycle inhibitory proteins p53, p27, and p21 were increased, and cyclin D1, the cell cycle progressive protein, was decreased. Sp1 is a transcription factor regulating cell proliferation, was decreased in the ESC-treated LoVo cells. Annexin V/propidium iodide staining results showed that ESC induces apoptosis in LoVo cells. Western blot results showed that Bax, cleaved caspase -3, -7, -9, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, which are proapoptotic proteins, were increased and the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 was decreased. Taken together, ESC induced apoptosis and has an anti-cancer effect in LoVo cells.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313495	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313495	cancer
Aging cell	Hsp90β interacts with MDM2 to suppress p53-dependent senescence during skeletal muscle regeneration.	Cellular senescence plays both beneficial and detrimental roles in embryonic development and tissue regeneration, while the underlying mechanism remains elusive. Recent studies disclosed the emerging roles of heat-shock proteins in regulating muscle regeneration and homeostasis. Here, we found that Hsp90β, but not Hsp90α isoform, was significantly upregulated during muscle regeneration. RNA-seq analysis disclosed a transcriptional elevation of p21 in Hsp90β-depleted myoblasts, which is due to the upregulation of p53. Moreover, knockdown of Hsp90β in myoblasts resulted in p53-dependent cellular senescence. In contrast to the notion that Hsp90 interacts with and protects mutant p53 in cancer, Hsp90β preferentially bound to wild-type p53 and modulated its degradation via a proteasome-dependent manner. Moreover, Hsp90β interacted with MDM2, the chief E3 ligase of p53, to regulate the stability of p53. In line with these in vitro studies, the expression level of p53-p21 axis was negatively correlated with Hsp90β in aged mice muscle. Consistently, administration of 17-AAG, a Hsp90 inhibitor under clinical trial, impaired muscle regeneration by enhancing injury-induced senescence in vivo. Taken together, our finding revealed a previously unappreciated role of Hsp90β in regulating p53 stability to suppress senescence both in vitro and in vivo.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313490	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313490	cancer
Environmental toxicology	Phthalate plasticizer di(2-ethyl-hexyl) phthalate induces cyclooxygenase-2 expression in gastric adenocarcinoma cells.	The phthalate plasticizer, di(2-ethyl-hexyl) phthalate (DEHP), and its derived metabolites are common anthropogenic environmental toxins, which are known to act as endocrine disruptors. Numerous studies have associated DEHP with disruption of sex hormones, abnormal development of reproductive organs, allergies, and inflammation. Its role in promoting inflammation has been reported by both human epidemiological and animal studies. In stomach tissue, chronic inflammation is known to accompany mucosal damage, and pave the way to gastritis, stomach ulcers, and ultimately gastric cancer. Eastern Asian populations possess the highest gastric cancer incidences in the world. Coincidentally, East Asia is one of the world's major sites for plastics manufacture and export. Thus, possible correlations between DEHP, a common plasticizer, and gastric cancer are of great interest. Our study revealed several critical findings. First, even at very low dosage, mimicking the residual plasticizer exposure, detrimental effects of DEHP on gastric cells can be detected. Second, gastric cells treated with DEHP increased cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in a time-dependent manner. Third, promoter deletion studies revealed a critical role of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) for COX-2 gene responses. Finally, our results indicated that a low concentration of DEHP is able to trigger COX-2 activation via the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) and NF-κB signaling pathway. Taken together, we demonstrate that very low doses of DEHP enhance the expression of the prototypical inflammatory gene, COX-2, in gastric cancer cells via ERK1/2 and NF-κB activation. This study provides important insights into the inflammatory process and damages associated with phthalate plasticizers exposure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313480	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313480	cancer
Cancer medicine	Clinical conditions and treatment requirements for long-term survival among hepatitis B-related hepatocellular carcinoma initially treated with chemoembolization.	In this cohort, a 3-year survival was associated with BMI, antivirus treatment, tumor status, hepatic function, and AFP level. Distant metastasis did not negatively impact the long-term survival among patients with hepatitis B-related HCC initially treated with TACE. Vascular invasion was the single impediment to long-term survival in patients who received add-on resection and/or ablation after TACE.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313476	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313476	cancer
Asia-Pacific journal of clinical oncology	The patient co-payment and opportunity costs of accessing healthcare for Indigenous Australians with cancer: A whole of population data linkage study.	There is growing concern regarding the financial burden of cancer to the patient. The time spent away from family and their community may also have an important time opportunity cost, which may affect a person's decision to undertake or continue treatment. This is the first study in Australia to identify the financial cost of co-payments for Indigenous people with cancer, as well as the number and length of hospitalizations as drivers of time opportunity costs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31313475	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313475	cancer
BJU international	Characterizing "Bounce-back" Readmissions After Radical Cystectomy.	One in five readmissions following radical cystectomy occurs within three days of initial discharge, likely due to factors present at discharge. However, sociodemographic and clinical factors as well as traditional readmission risk tools were not predictive of this bounce-back. Effective strategies to reduce bounce-back readmission must identify actionable clinical factors prior to discharge. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313473	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313473	cancer
International journal of nursing practice	Infertility-related knowledge in childbearing-age women with breast cancer after chemotherapy.	Women with breast cancer lacked knowledge about infertility and underestimated the possibility of infertility. We suggest future patient education on infertility after cancer treatment and about reproductive technology in oncologic practice before treatment begins.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31313445	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313445	cancer
Head & neck	Prognosis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma with insufficient radical dose to the primary site in the intensity-modulated radiotherapy era.	Patients receiving ≥54 Gy but <66 Gy with IC achieved good local control and long-term survival.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313419	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313419	cancer
Journal of magnetic resonance imaging : JMRI	Diffusion gradient nonlinearity bias correction reduces bias of breast cancer bone metastasis ADC values.	2 Technical Efficacy: Stage 2 J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2019.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313407	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313407	cancer
Veterinary radiology & ultrasound : the official journal of the American College of Veterinary Radiology and the International Veterinary Radiology Association	Ultrasonographic characterization of cervical lymph nodes in healthy dogs.	Ultrasonography provides a minimally invasive method to evaluate the cervical lymph nodes in dogs as part of staging head and neck cancer; however, standardized cohesive reports of the normal lymph node size and appearance are lacking. The purpose of this prospective, descriptive, reference interval study was to characterize the ultrasonographic appearance of cervical lymph nodes in 27 clinically healthy dogs. The size, shape, echogenicity, and margination of the mandibular, medial retropharyngeal, and superficial cervical lymph nodes were evaluated and correlated with age, breed, sex, body weight, and stage of dental disease. The appearance of the lymph nodes was variable among the population. The majority were cigar or ovoid in shape with smooth margins. The echogenicity of the mandibular lymph nodes was predominantly hypoechoic whereas the medial retropharyngeal lymph nodes were predominantly isoechoic compared to the salivary glands. The superficial cervical lymph nodes were predominantly hyperechoic to the surrounding muscle bellies. Higher body weight and younger age were associated with increased size in the medial retropharyngeal and superficial cervical lymph nodes (P-values < .05). Sex and breed were not found to correlate with lymph node characteristics, and there was no trend noted in lymph node appearance associated with dental disease. These data establish normal parameters for the ultrasonographic size and appearance of cervical lymph nodes in dogs and can provide a reference of comparison for future canine cervical ultrasounds, which can be considered for routine staging procedures for head and neck cancer.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313406	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313406	cancer
Molecular carcinogenesis	Targeting cholecystokinin-2 receptor for pancreatic cancer chemoprevention.	Gastrin signaling mediated through cholecystokinin-2 receptor (CCK2R) and its downstream molecules is altered in pancreatic cancer. CCK2R antagonists, YF476 (netazepide) and JNJ-26070109, were tested systematically for their effect on pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) progression to pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) in Kras	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313401	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313401	cancer
Head & neck	Temporomandibular disorder in head and neck cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy: Clinical findings and patient-reported symptoms.	The signs and symptoms of TMD escalate after radiotherapy, with symptoms peaking at 6 months after radiotherapy. Most commonly, patients suffer from restricted mouth opening, stiffness, fatigue, and pain of the jaw.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313400	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313400	cancer
Journal of magnetic resonance imaging : JMRI	Dynamic contrast-enhanced and diffusion-weighted MRI of invasive breast cancer for the prediction of sentinel lymph node status.	3 Technical Efficacy: Stage 2 J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2019.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313393	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313393	cancer
Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics	Population-based case-control study: chemoprotection of colorectal cancer with non-aspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and other drugs for pain control.	NA-NSAID use is associated with a duration-dependent risk reduction of CRC not shared by SYSADOAs or metamizole.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313358	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313358	cancer
Drug development research	The protective effect of syringic acid on dextran sulfate sodium-induced experimental colitis in BALB/c mice.	Inflammatory bowel diseases involve chronic intestinal inflammation which is mostly caused by Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis (UC) conditions. Patients having UC are prone to colorectal cancer and dysplastic polyps, and also have sporadic adenomas. Syringic acid (SA) possesses many health benefits including antioxidant, anti-bacterial, and anti-cancer. This study was aimed to identify the effects of SA on UC, using a murine experimental model. Clinical symptoms and weight loss were significantly reduced in mice induced with dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) and treated with SA, compared to untreated mice. The effects of SA exhibited in DSS-induced mice were associated with significant decrease in the expressions levels of inflammatory mediators such as inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), pro-inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor [TNF-α], interleukin [IL-1β and IL-6]), remarkable amelioration of colonic architectural disruption, and a significant reduction in the activity of colonic myeloperoxidase. To further confirm the anti-inflammatory property of SA, RAW 264.7 cells were stimulated with lipopolysaccharides. SA dose-dependently inhibited the cytokines TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6. It also decreased the expressions of p65-NF-κB and IκB, thus reducing the activation and nuclear accumulation of p-STAT-3	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313354	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313354	cancer
Drug development research	Dose-dependent chemopreventive effects of citronellol in DMBA-induced breast cancer among rats.	Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers among women world wide and its incidence is on tremendous increase. The present study is aimed to analyze the dose-dependent chemopreventive efficacy of citronellol on 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA)-induced rat mammary carcinogenesis. The mammary tumor was induced through a single dose of DMBA (25 mg/rat) injected subcutaneously near the mammary gland of rats. In DMBA-injected rats, 100% tumor incidence, increased tumor volume, and tumor burden along with loss of body weight were observed. Biochemical analysis revealed the increased levels of phase I detoxification proteins (cytochrome P450 and b5) and decreased activities of phase II detoxification enzymes (glutathione-S-transferase and glutathione reductase) in hepatic and mammary tissues. The levels of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants (superoxidedismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and (GPx) and reduced glutathione) were decreased and lipid peroxidation by-products (thiobarbituric acid reactive substance and lipid hydroperoxide) got increased in plasma and mammary tissues. Oral administration of different doses of citronellol (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg body weight) to DMBA-treated rats for 16 weeks absolutely inhibited the tumor incidence and restored the biochemical parameters near to normal level in 50 and 100 mg doses whereas the histopathological studies also supported the biochemical findings. Hence, the result suggests that the citronellol of 50 mg/kg body weight exerted significant chemopreventive effects and can be considered as a minimum optimum dose in the prevention of mammary carcinogenesis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313341	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313341	cancer
Journal of cellular physiology	Inhibition of KHSRP sensitizes colorectal cancer to 5-fluoruracil through miR-501-5p-mediated ERRFI1 mRNA degradation.	K-homology (KH)-type splicing regulatory protein (KHSRP) is an RNA binding protein that participates in RNA variable splicing and stability, and facilitates the biogenesis of miRNAs that target mRNA. However, to date, the role of KHSRP in colorectal cancer (CRC) progression has not been reported. In this study, the function of KHSRP in CRC proliferation and 5-fluoruracil (5-FU) resistance was investigated. The upregulation of KHSRP expression was confirmed in CRC patient tissues and two CRC cell lines. Manipulating KHSRP expression altered cell proliferation and 5-FU resistance in CRC cells. ERRFI1, a downstream effector of KHSRP in CRC cells, reduced CRC cell proliferation. Sensitivity to 5-FU mediated by KHSRP knockdown was reversed by ERRFI1 knockdown. We found that KHSRP decreased ERRFI1 mRNA expression indirectly. By screening KHSRP-regulated miRNAs, we further found that miR-501-5p directly combines with KHSRP in CRC cells. Mechanistically, the results of a luciferase assay suggested that miR-501-5p directly binds to the ERRFI1 3'-untranslated region. Taken together, our data indicated that modification of ERRFI1 by KHSRP occurs through miR-501-5p, an essential mechanism driving CRC proliferation and 5-FU resistance. Insight into this mechanism may provide novel targets for overcoming drug resistance in CRC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313286	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313286	cancer
Endocrine	Prognosis of patients with differentiated thyroid carcinomas having a preoperative cytological report of indeterminate at low or high risk. A multicenter study.	While patients with thyroid FNA of Tir 3B should be addressed to surgery due to high likelihood of more aggressive cancer, a diagnostic surgery could be avoided in patients with Tir 3A if concurrent unsuspicious clinical features are found.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313225	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313225	cancer
MMW Fortschritte der Medizin	[Hypertension therapy - what is the risk of getting cancer from antihypertensive drugs?]	 	2019	ger	Review	Germany	31313170	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313170	cancer
Journal of gastrointestinal surgery : official journal of the Society for Surgery of the Alimentary Tract	Synergistic Effect of Lymphatic Invasion and Venous Invasion on the Risk of Lymph Node Metastasis in Patients with Non-Curative Endoscopic Resection of Early Gastric Cancer.	Both LI and VI were significant predictors of LN metastasis. The risk of LN metastasis was augmented when both LI and VI were positive. Therefore, LI and VI should be evaluated separately in patients with non-curative endoscopic resection. Additive surgery should be recommended for patients with LI and/or VI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313145	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313145	cancer
Journal of gastrointestinal surgery : official journal of the Society for Surgery of the Alimentary Tract	Colorectal Cancer Metastases to Brain or Bone and the Relationship to Primary Tumor Location: a Population-Based Study.	Primary tumor location impacts incidence proportions of bone metastasis and survival of both brain and bone mCRC patients. Primary tumor location should be taken into consideration in clinical practice and prognostic assessment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313144	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313144	cancer
Molecular biology reports	Targeting the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/AKT pathways by small molecules and natural compounds as a therapeutic approach for breast cancer cells.	The phosphoinositide 3-kinase/AKT/mTOR (PI3K/AkT/mTOR) pathway plays a pivotal role in the uncontrolled growth, migration and development of human breast cancer. The elevated expression of TGF-β1 increases the PI3K/AkT/mTOR activity in human breast cancer tissue and potentially motivates tumor metastasis and resistance to chemotherapy. Here, we investigated whether treatment with PI3K/AkT/mTOR dual inhibitor NVP-BEZ235 alone or in combination with caffeic acid phenyl ester (CAPE) could prevent TGF-β1 effects on breast cancer cells. MCF-7 human breast cancer cells were exposed to TGF-β1 for 14 days and then were treated with/without NVP-BEZ235 and/or CAPE. Cell viability, apoptosis, CXCR4 surface expression and mRNA levels of CXCR4 and TWIST-1 were analyzed in all treated groups. We found that treatment of human breast cancer cells with a combination of NVP-BEZ235 and CAPE increased induction of cellular death. Although flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that NVP-BEZ235 alone treatment reduced CXCR4 expression while increasing CXCR4 mRNA level; when NVP-BEZ235 was combined with CAPE, inhibition of CXCR4 surface expression and enhancement of CXCR4 mRNA expression was diminished. In addition, TWIST-1 mRNA expression was down regulated in samples treated with both NVP-BEZ235 and CAPE. These altogether signified that NVP-BEZ235 in combination with CAPE showed improved therapeutic efficacy in breast cancer cells by decreasing apoptotic resistance and reduction of CXCR4 and TWIST-1 expression at mRNA level could be one of mechanism of action.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313132	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313132	cancer
Journal of cancer survivorship : research and practice	Subjective cognitive functioning and associations with psychological distress in adult brain tumour survivors.	These findings highlight the potential value of psychological interventions targeting anxiety and cognitive effects to improve quality of survivorship after brain tumour.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313128	cancer
Journal of general internal medicine	Patient Perspectives on Primary HPV Testing for Routine Cervical Cancer Screening.	 	2019	eng	Letter	United States	31313121	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313121	cancer
Journal of general internal medicine	Nonbacterial Thrombotic Endocarditis Due to Primary Gallbladder Malignancy with Recurrent Stroke Despite Anticoagulation: Case Report and Literature Review.	Nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis (NBTE) associated with malignancy is rare; its infrequency and similarity to other diagnoses make it a significant diagnostic challenge. A 63-year-old woman on rivaroxaban for prior deep vein thrombosis presented with left upper extremity weakness and left facial droop with imaging demonstrating multiple strokes. Echocardiograms revealed mitral and aortic valve vegetations. The patient was switched to apixaban and started on vancomycin and ceftriaxone for presumed culture-negative endocarditis. Despite continuing apixaban, her hospital course was complicated by new acute embolic infarcts. Workup confirmed non-mucinous metastatic biliary adenocarcinoma. The patient was placed on a heparin drip then switched to low molecular weight heparin without further embolic events and was discharged to a rehabilitation facility in stable condition with plans for chemotherapy as an outpatient. These clinical, imaging, and histologic findings were consistent with a rare case of NBTE associated with primary non-mucinous gallbladder malignancy complicated by recurrent strokes in which direct oral anticoagulants did not provide adequate anticoagulation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313109	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313109	cancer
Drugs	Targeting ROS1 Rearrangements in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: Crizotinib and Newer Generation Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors.	ROS1 gene rearrangements exist in 1-2% of non-small cell lung cancers, typically occurring in younger, never or light smokers with adenocarcinoma. ROS1 gene fusions are potent oncogenic drivers, the presence of which results in the susceptibility of tumours to ROS1-targeted therapy. Crizotinib was the first tyrosine kinase inhibitor to demonstrate activity in ROS1-rearranged lung cancer, and remains the recommended first-line therapy for patients with advanced ROS1-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer. Despite excellent initial responses to crizotinib, the majority of patients develop disease progression, which may be intracranial or extracranial. Identification of resistance mechanisms to crizotinib, and newer generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors with increased potency against ROS1 and ROS1-resistance mutations, and improved intracranial activity are under evaluation in clinical trials. In this review, we discuss ROS1 rearrangements in non-small cell lung cancer, and provide an update on targeting ROS1-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer with crizotinib and newer generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31313100	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313100	cancer
Drugs	Targeting BCL2 in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia and Other Hematologic Malignancies.	Apoptosis, the process of programmed cell death, occurs normally during development and aging. Members of the B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2) family of proteins are central regulators of apoptosis, and resistance to apoptosis is one of the hallmarks of cancer. Targeting the apoptotic pathway via BCL2 inhibitors has been considered a promising treatment strategy in the past decade. Initial efforts with small molecule BH3 mimetics such as ABT-737 and ABT-263 (navitoclax) pioneered the development of the first-in-class Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved oral BCL2 inhibitor, venetoclax. Venetoclax was approved for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia, and is now being studied in a number of hematologic malignancies. Several other inhibitors targeting different BCL2 family members are now in early stages of development.	2019	eng	Review	New Zealand	31313099	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313099	cancer
Drugs	Camrelizumab: First Global Approval.	Camrelizumab (AiRuiKa™), a programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor being developed by Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co. Ltd, recently received conditional approval in China for the treatment of relapsed or refractory classical Hodgkin lymphoma. The drug is also being investigated as a treatment for various other malignancies, including B cell lymphoma, oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma, gastric/gastroesophageal junction cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, nasopharyngeal cancer and non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer. This article summarizes the milestones in the development of camrelizumab leading to this first approval for classical Hodgkin lymphoma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31313098	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313098	cancer
Science China. Life sciences	Identification of hedgehog signaling as a potential oncogenic driver in an aggressive subclass of human hepatocellular carcinoma: A reanalysis of the TCGA cohort.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a heterogeneous disease and the second most common cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Marked developments in genomic technologies helped scientists to understand the heterogeneity of HCC and identified multiple HCC-related molecular subclasses. An integrative analysis of genomic datasets including 196 patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) group has recently reported a new HCC subclass, which contains three subgroups (iCluster1, iCluster2, and iCluster3). However, the transcriptional molecular characteristics underlying the iClusters have not been thoroughly investigated. Herein, we identified a more aggressive subset of HCC patients in the iCluster1, and re-clustered the TCGA samples into novel HCC subclasses referred to as aggressive (Ag), moderate-aggressive (M-Ag), and less-aggressive (L-Ag) subclasses. The Ag subclass had a greater predictive power than the TCGA iCluster1, and a higher level of alpha fetoprotein, microscopic vascular invasion, immune infiltration, isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2 mutation status, and a worse survival than M-Ag and L-Ag subclasses. Global transcriptomic analysis showed that activation of hedgehog signaling in the Ag subclass may play key roles in tumor development of aggressive HCC. GLI1, a key transcriptional regulator of hedgehog signaling upregulated in the Ag subclass, was correlated with poor prognosis of HCC, and may be a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for Ag subclass HCC patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31313086	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313086	cancer
Clinical and experimental medicine	Radiation-induced lung injury: latest molecular developments, therapeutic approaches, and clinical guidance.	Cancer research has advanced throughout the years with respect to the personalization of the treatments and to targeting cancer-related molecular signatures on different organs. Still, the adverse events of the treatments such as radiotherapy are of high concern as they may increase the mortality rate due to their severity. With the improved efficiency of cancer treatments, patient survival has been increasing. Consequently, the number of patients with adverse effects from radiotherapy is also expected to increase in the forthcoming years. Therefore, approaches for personalized treatments include the elimination of adverse events and decreasing the toxicity in healthy tissues while increasing the efficiency of cancer cytotoxicity. In this context, this paper aims to discuss the recent advances in the field of thorax irradiation therapy and its related toxicities leading to radiation pneumonitis in cancer patients. Molecular mechanisms involved in the radiation-induced lung injury and approaches used to overcome this lung injury are discussed. The discourse covers approaches such as therapeutic administration of natural products, current and prospective radioprotective drugs, and applications of mesenchymal stem cells for radiation-induced lung injury.	2019	eng	Review	Italy	31313081	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313081	cancer
European journal of epidemiology	Increase in curative treatment and survival of lung cancer in Norway 2001-2016.	We have studied the alterations in the use of curative treatment and the outcome for lung cancer patients in Norway 2001-2016. The Cancer Registry of Norway has a practically complete registration of all cancer diagnoses, treatments given and deaths. For the years 2001-2016, 43,137 patients were diagnosed with lung cancer. Stereotactic radiotherapy was established nationwide from 2008 and its use has increased, and in 2016, 8.8% were given this treatment. In addition 20.6% were operated and 8.5% were treated with conventional radiotherapy. Thus 37.9% of those diagnosed were treated with intention to cure, compared to 22.9% in 2001 (p < 0.0001). Further, the median survival for the whole group diagnosed with lung cancer increased from 6.0 (95% CI 5.6-6.7) months in 2001 to 11.8 (95% CI 10.9-12.7) in 2016. The 5 year survival increased from 9.4 (95% CI 8.1-10.8)% to 19.9 (95% CI 19.2-20.6)% in the same period. In 2016 the age adjusted incidence rate was 59.5 per 100,000 (Norwegian standard) and had increased significantly in both sexes. There had also been an increase in mean age at diagnosis and the proportion diagnosed in an early stage. The increase in curative treatment has been paralleled with a doubling in both the median and 5-year survival. The present results are used for surveillance and as a benchmark, and we are looking forward to reaching a proportion of 40% of patients given curative treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313073	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313073	cancer
Journal of robotic surgery	Robotic versus laparoscopic sphincter-saving total mesorectal excision for mid or low rectal cancer in male patients after neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy: comparison of long-term outcomes.	The aim of our study was to compare long term outcomes of robotic and laparoscopic sphincter-saving total mesorectal excision (TME) in male patients with mid-low rectal cancer (RC) after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (NCRT). The study was conducted as a retrospective review of a prospectively maintained database, and we analyzed 14 robotic and 65 laparoscopic sphincter-saving TME (R-TME and L-TME, respectively) performed by one surgeon between 2005 and 2013. Patient characteristics, perioperative recovery, postoperative complications and pathology results were compared between the two groups. The patient characteristics did not differ significantly between the two groups. Median operating time was longer in the R-TME than in the L-TME group (182 min versus 140 min). Only two conversions occurred in the L-TME group. No difference was found between groups regarding perioperative recovery and postoperative complication rates. The median number of harvested lymph nodes was higher in the RTME than in the L-TME group (32 versus 23, p = 0.008). The median circumferential margin (CRM) was 10 mm in the R-TME group, 6.5 mm in the L-TME group (p = 0.047. The median distal resection margin (DRM) was 27.5 mm in the R-TME, 15 mm in the L-TME group (p = 0.014). Macroscopic grading of the specimen in the R-TME group was complete in all patients. In the L-TME group, grading was complete in 52 (80%) and incomplete in 13 (20%) cases (p = 0.109). Median follow-up 87 months (1-152). Whereas local recurrence was seen in eight cases (10.12%) and distant metastasis was seen in 18 cases (22.7%). Overall, 5 years survival was 83.3% in R-TME, 75% in L-TME groups. R-TME is a safe and feasible procedure that facilitates performing of TME in male patients with mid to low RC after NCRT.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313071	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313071	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	Completion of Adjuvant Chemotherapy After Upfront Surgical Resection for Pancreatic Cancer Is Uncommon Yet Associated With Improved Survival.	Only 7% of the Medicare patients who underwent upfront resection for pancreatic cancer completed adjuvant chemotherapy, yet completion of adjuvant chemotherapy was associated with improved OS. Completion of adjuvant chemotherapy should be the goal after upfront resection, but neoadjuvant chemotherapy may ensure that patients receive systemic chemotherapy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313044	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313044	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	Long-Term Oncologic Outcomes of Laparoscopic Versus Open Radical Nephroureterectomy for Patients with T3N0M0 Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma: A Multicenter Cohort Study with Adjustment by Propensity Score Matching.	Based on clinical and pathologic T3N0M0 UTUC populations after PS adjustments, LRNU resulted in poorer CSS and IVRFS than ORNU.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313043	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313043	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	Significance of Herpesvirus Entry Mediator Expression in Human Colorectal Liver Metastasis.	Tumor HVEM expression might play a critical role in CRLM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313042	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313042	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	Perioperative Use of Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs Decreases the Risk of Recurrence of Cancer After Colorectal Resection: A Cohort Study Based on Prospective Data.	Perioperative use of NSAIDs was associated with a reduced risk of cancer recurrence after resection for colorectal cancer. No effect on 5-year mortality or DFS was found.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313040	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313040	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	Prognostic Significance of Skeletal Muscle Loss During Early Postoperative Period in Elderly Patients with Esophageal Cancer.	Early postoperative skeletal muscle loss predicts both recurrence and poor survival.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313039	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313039	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	Lymph Node Station-Based Nodal Staging System for Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Large-Scale Multicenter Study.	The S system demonstrated a competing prognostic performance compared with the current AJCC N system. Due to the relatively easy accessibility of the number of metastatic lymph node stations, the S system may offer an easier option for cancer staging without a loss of discriminative power.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313038	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313038	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	Genetic Variant of Notch Regulator DTX1 Predicts Survival After Lung Cancer Surgery.	These results suggest that DTX1 rs1732786 is a potential prognostic factor that may have clinical utility in the management of early stage NSCLC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313037	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	ASO Author Reflections: Routine Radiologic Staging of Distant Metastases Must Be Recommended as a Binding Guideline After Diagnosis of Local Breast Cancer Recurrence.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313032	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313032	cancer
Annals of surgical oncology	Correction to: Association of Primary Language with Outcomes After Operations Typically Performed to Treat Cancer: Analysis of a Statewide Database.	In the original article, there were errors in Table 1 that were not in accordance with requirements set by the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) Data Use Agreement that apply to this article. Following is the corrected Table 1.	2019	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31313031	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313031	cancer
Journal of community health	Barriers to Pap Smear Among Homeless Women at Albuquerque Healthcare for the Homeless.	The purpose of this cross-sectional survey study was to explore common barriers to adequate Pap smear utilization among homeless women, and the factors that may relate to cervical cancer testing in this population. Participants consisted of adult women recruited at a healthcare facility for the homeless. Data were collected through a self-completed questionnaire on knowledge, attitudes and intentions about Pap smears and cervical cancer. Analyses included descriptive and inferential statistics. Sixty participants who had experienced homelessness within the past year completed the study. The most frequently mentioned barrier to testing was not having enough time to obtain a Pap smear (n = 33; 55%). Linear regression found that there were no significant relationships between knowledge and attitudes about cervical cancer and intention to get a Pap smear. However, the study did find that women with a positive previous Pap smear experience had more positive attitudes about the process and outcomes of Pap smears (p = 0.011, p = 0.00, respectively). Participants with more knowledge about cervical cancer were less negative about Pap smear outcomes (p = 0.05), and that women with negative attitudes about Pap smear outcomes were less likely to have obtained a Pap smear in the past (p = 0.033). Interventions that promote positive attitudes about testing and outcomes, minimizing stress and inconvenience during the test, as well as increasing the ease of scheduling an appointment may help break down barriers to cervical cancer screening among homeless women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313028	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313028	cancer
Molecular and cellular biochemistry	Novel tetrahydroacridine derivatives with iodobenzoic moieties induce G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in A549 non-small lung cancer and HT-29 colorectal cancer cells.	A series of nine tetrahydroacridine derivatives with iodobenzoic moiety were synthesized and evaluated for their cytotoxic activity against cancer cell lines-A549 (human lung adenocarcinoma), HT-29 (human colorectal adenocarcinoma) and somatic cell line-EA.hy926 (human umbilical vein cell line). All compounds displayed high cytotoxicity activity against A549 (IC	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313023	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313023	cancer
Digestive diseases and sciences	Predictive Factors of Mild and Severe Fibrosis in Colorectal Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection.	We identified the predictive factors of mild and severe fibrosis. It is preferable that a more experienced physician performs ESD for the lesions with F2 fibrosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312991	cancer
Journal of medical systems	Cervical Cancer Identification with Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique and PCA Analysis using Random Forest Classifier.	Cervical cancer is the fourth most communal malignant disease amongst women worldwide. In maximum circumstances, cervical cancer indications are not perceptible at its initial stages. There are a proportion of features that intensify the threat of emerging cervical cancer like human papilloma virus, sexual transmitted diseases, and smoking. Ascertaining those features and constructing a classification model to categorize, if the cases are cervical cancer or not is an existing challenging research. This learning intentions at using cervical cancer risk features to build classification model using Random Forest (RF) classification technique with the synthetic minority oversampling technique (SMOTE) and two feature reduction techniques recursive feature elimination and principle component analysis (PCA). Utmost medical data sets are frequently imbalanced since the number of patients is considerably fewer than the number of non-patients. For the imbalance of the used data set, SMOTE is cast-off to solve this problem. The data set comprises of 32 risk factors and four objective variables: Hinselmann, Schiller, Cytology and Biopsy. Accuracy, Sensitivity, Specificity, PPA and NPA of the four variables remains accurate after SMOTE when compared with values obtained before SMOTE. An RSOnto ontology has been created to visualize the progress in classification performance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312985	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312985	cancer
Journal of molecular modeling	Theoretical study on the mechanism of N- and α-carbon oxidation of lapatinib catalyzed by cytochrome P450 monooxygenase.	Lapatinib, an orally active dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor, is efficacious in combination therapy with capecitabine for advanced metastatic breast cancer. Despite its importance, it has been associated with hepatotoxicity observed in clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance. The mechanisms of hepatotoxicity at the chemical and cellular levels may link to drug metabolism. In this study, the N- and α-carbon oxidation processes of lapatinib catalyzed by CYP3A4 were explored by density functional theory method. The calculation results show that oxidation of C	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312984	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312984	cancer
Supportive care in cancer : official journal of the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer	Comments on "Prevalence of shoulder morbidity after treatment for breast Cancer in South Africa".	 	2019	eng	Letter	Germany	31312980	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312980	cancer
World journal of surgery	Extra-perigastric Extranodal Metastasis is a Significant Prognostic Factor in Node-Positive Gastric Cancer.	Extranodal metastasis, especially extra-perigastric extranodal metastasis, was a pivotal poor prognostic factor in node-positive gastric cancer. Recognizing extra-perigastric extranodal metastasis would help provide optimal therapeutic options to these high-risk patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312947	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312947	cancer
Investigational new drugs	Stimulation of neuroendocrine differentiation in prostate cancer cells by GHRH and its blockade by GHRH antagonists.	Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths among men in developed countries. Neuroendocrine prostate cancer, in particular, is associated with an aggressive phenotype and a poor prognosis. Neuroendocrine cells produce and secrete peptide hormones and growth factors in a paracrine/autocrine manner which promote the progression of the disease. Recent studies have demonstrated that extracellular vesicles or exosomes are released by prostate cancer cells, supporting the spread of prostate cancer. Hence, the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) on neuroendocrine differentiation (NED) in the androgen-dependent prostate cancer cell line LNCaP and the molecular mechanisms underlying these effects. GHRH induced an increase in the percentage of neurite-bearing cells and in the protein levels of Neuron-Specific Enolase. Both effects were blocked by the GHRH receptor antagonist MIA-690. In addition, pretreatment of these cells with the calcium chelator BAPTA, the EGFR inhibitor AG-1478 or the HER2 inhibitor AG-825 reduced the effect of GHRH, suggesting that the GHRH-induced stimulation of NED involves calcium channel activation and EGFR/HER2 transactivation. Finally, PC3-derived exosomes led to an increase in NED, cell proliferation and cell adhesion. Altogether, these findings suggest that GHRH antagonists should be considered for in the management of neuroendocrine prostate cancer.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312936	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312936	cancer
Breast cancer research and treatment	The prognostic significance of preoperative tumor marker (CEA, CA15-3) elevation in breast cancer patients: data from the Korean Breast Cancer Society Registry.	Preoperative CEA and CA15-3 levels showed varying prognostic ability according to breast cancer subtype. Preoperative CA15-3 and CEA elevation are significant prognostic factors for luminal breast cancer, but they were not significant factors for TNBC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31312932	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312932	cancer
International journal of clinical oncology	Impact of pathological stage and histological subtype on clinical outcome of adjuvant chemotherapy of paclitaxel plus carboplatin versus oral uracil-tegafur for non-small cell lung cancer: subanalysis of SLCG0401 trial.	There are subsets of patients in which one or the other between UFT and CBDCA/PTX is significantly more effective. Selection of adjuvant therapy for NSCLC patients needs to be made taking into consideration the pStage and histological subtype.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31312931	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312931	cancer
Cytotechnology	Optimization of cultivation conditions for monoclonal IgM antibody production by M1A2 hybridoma using artificial neural network.	Monoclonal antibody (McAb) has been established as one of the most successful therapeutic strategies for the treatment of cancer. M1A2 (McAb) as a new monoclonal antibody was designed to recognize heat shock protein (HSP60), but its optimum production condition has not been studied. In this study, the cell culture conditions for both Roswell Park Memorial Institute Medium (RPMI 1640) and Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM) were optimized using artificial neural network (ANN) analysis to obtain maximum production of IgM McAb by hybridoma M1A2 cells. By using a central composite design, an experimental matrix with cultivation parameters of incubation time, temperature and fetal bovine serum (FBS) concentration on IgM McAb production was designed. The results was analysed by ANN network with different learning algorithms. From the analysis, batch back propagation (BBP) trained ANN composed of eight hidden nodes using a hyperbolic tangent sigmoid transfer function was capable to provide the highest McAb production for both RPMI and DMEM media. Under optimum conditions of 12.5% of FBS, at 33 °C after 3(1/2) days of incubation, maximum McAb production (1132.69 μg/ml) in DMEM was achieved. With PRMI 1640 medium, maximum McAb production (1105.12 μg/ml) was achieved at optimum conditions of 11% of FBS, at 33 °C after 4 days of incubation. The results of this study will provide information for optimum culture conditions of M1A2 McAb production in both DMEM and RPMI 1640 media and also give some clues for the other hybridoma excreting antibodies in the development of in vitro cell culture.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312930	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312930	cancer
European archives of oto-rhino-laryngology : official journal of the European Federation of Oto-Rhino-Laryngological Societies (EUFOS) : affiliated with the German Society for Oto-Rhino-Laryngology - Head and Neck Surgery	Systemic immune response in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck: a comparative concordance index analysis.	The LMR, PLR, and NLR were not associated with OS, but were associated with EFS in HNSCC. These markers are easily obtainable, and in the age of individualized patient care and precision medicine, they might represent further risk stratification tools for HNSCC patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312922	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312922	cancer
Wiener klinische Wochenschrift	Challenges in rehabilitation of patients with nontraumatic spinal cord dysfunction due to tumors : A narrative review.	The incidence of cancer-associated non-traumatic spinal cord dysfunction is rising due to population aging and better cancer treatment. The overall benefit of rehabilitation in specialized facilities for traumatic spinal cord dysfunction has been confirmed many times. Because of their fragility and multiple comorbidities cancer patients still face challenges to complete rehabilitation in the spinal rehabilitation facilities. In this narrative review we describe specific aspects, challenges in rehabilitation and opportunities to improve care. A literature search was performed in the PubMed database from 1 January 1978 to 30 November 2018. The focus was to find publications that discuss challenges and opportunities for rehabilitation of patients with non-traumatic spinal cord dysfunction due to a tumor. Most publications described the benefits of rehabilitation in specialized facilities. There were only few publications about survival and functional outcomes after rehabilitation for this patient population. Overall benefits including fewer complications associated with spinal cord dysfunction, less pain and depression, and better quality of life were shown. Within the past decades increasing number of publications revealed a growing interest for this group of patients. Despite major progress in cancer treatment, patients still have a limited vital prognosis and access to specialized rehabilitation units because of the concerns about the medical complexity. Patients with spinal cord tumors can benefit in areas of functionality, mood, quality of life, and survival from inpatient rehabilitation programs, in spite of the increased medical comorbidities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Austria	31312916	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312916	cancer
Cardiovascular and interventional radiology	Liver-Directed and Systemic Therapies for Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312902	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312902	cancer
International journal of colorectal disease	An exploration of colorectal cancer incidence rates in North Dakota, USA, via structural equation modeling.	Well water contains several agents, e.g., bacteria, disinfection by-products, and nitrates that are potent colorectal carcinogens. Studies of well water use and colorectal cancer risk at the individual level in North Dakota are warranted.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312891	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312891	cancer
International journal of colorectal disease	Risk factors for incomplete polyp resection after cold snare polypectomy.	Performance of the polypectomy by a trainee was identified as a significant risk factor for IPR in patients undergoing CSP. Prospective, randomized studies are necessary in the future to develop effective methods for the prevention/control of IPR after CSP.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312890	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312890	cancer
European radiology	Dual-layer spectral CT improves image quality of multiphasic pancreas CT in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.	• Low-keV VMI from DLCT yields better subjective and objective image quality of multiphasic pancreas CT in comparison with conventional PEI for the assessment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. • Tumor conspicuity and depiction of peripancreatic vasculature were maximized at VMI 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312889	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312889	cancer
Naunyn-Schmiedeberg's archives of pharmacology	Liver damage in bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice.	Pulmonary fibrosis is an emerging disease with a poor prognosis and high mortality rate that is even surpassing some types of cancer. This disease has been linked to the concomitant appearance of liver cirrhosis. Bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis is a widely used mouse model that mimics the histopathological and biochemical features of human systemic sclerosis, an autoimmune disease that is associated with inflammation and expressed in several corporal systems as fibrosis or other alterations. To determine the effects on proliferation, redox and inflammation protein expression markers were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Analyses showed a significant increase in protein oxidation levels by lipoperoxidation bio-products and in proliferation and inflammation processes. These phenomena were associated with the induction of the redox status in mice subjected to 100 U/kg bleomycin. These findings clearly show that the bleomycin model induces histopathological alterations in the liver and partially reproduces the complexity of systemic sclerosis. Our results using the bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis model provide a protocol to investigate the mechanism underlying the molecular alteration found in the liver linked to systemic sclerosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312848	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312848	cancer
Proceedings of the ... IEEE International Symposium on Signal Processing and Information Technology. IEEE International Symposium on Signal Processing and Information Technology	Lung Cancer Survival Prediction via Machine Learning Regression, Classification, and Statistical Techniques.	A regression model is developed to predict survival time in months for lung cancer patients. It was previously shown that predictive models perform accurately for short survival times of less than 6 months; however, model accuracy is reduced when attempting to predict longer survival times. This study employs an approach for which regression models are used in combination with a classification model to predict survival time. A set of de-identified lung cancer patient data was obtained from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database. The models use a subset of factors selected by ANOVA. Model accuracy is measured by a confusion matrix for classification and by Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) for regression. Random Forests are used for classification, while general Linear Regression, Gradient Boosted Machines (GBM), and Random Forests are used for regression. The regression results show that RF had the best performance for survival times ≤6 and >24 months (RMSE 10.52 and 20.51, respectively), while GBM performed best for 7-24 months (RMSE 15.65). Comparison plots of the results further indicate that the regression models perform better for shorter survival times than the RMSE values are able to reflect.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312809	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312809	cancer
European journal of breast health	Lapatinib? or Radiotherapy? In Cranial Metastasis of Breast Cancer.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31312800	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312800	cancer
European journal of breast health	Unexpected Finding on Mammography and MRI due to Accumulation of Iron Oxide Particles Used for Sentinel Lymph Node Detection.	We present a case with imaging artefacts on mammography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) caused by iron oxide particles. After being diagnosed with the medullary cancer of the breast, the female patient had a breast conserving surgery on right breast. Iron oxide particles were used for the detection of the sentinel lymph node during operation. On follow ups, a de novo density on mammography, which was initially thought to be a new tumour, was found. MR images proved that the lesion is an artefact caused by iron oxide accumulation. Our aim in this case study is to underline and discuss the imaging artefacts caused by these particles and raise awareness.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Turkey	31312798	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312798	cancer
European journal of breast health	Intramammary Nodal Metastasis from Ovarian Cancer: A Case Report.	Intramammary metastasis from ovarian cancer is rare. It is usually associated with poor prognosis. We present a 56-year-old female with advanced ovarian cancer in whom a metastatic intramammary lymph node was discovered after finishing the first line of neoadjuvant chemotherapy.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Turkey	31312796	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312796	cancer
European journal of breast health	Cost effectiveness of Gene Expression Profiling in Patients with Early-Stage Breast Cancer in a Middle-Income Country, Turkey: Results of a Prospective Multicenter Study.	As Oncotype DX was found both cost-effective and life-saving from a national perspective, the test should be introduced to standard care in patients with ER+, HER-2 negative early-stage breast cancer in Turkey.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31312795	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312795	cancer
European journal of breast health	The Oncotype Dx Assay in ER-Positive, HER2-Negative Breast Cancer Patients: A Real Life Experience from a Single Cancer Center.	This single cancer center analysis confirms the avoidance of chemotherapy in the great majority of patients with early ER-positive, HER2-negative, lymph node-negative or micrometastatic carcinoma of the breast since the introduction of the Oncotype Dx assay. A higher recurrence risk score within the intermediate group may influence the decision for chemotherapy inclusion in the adjuvant treatment plan. A lower PR percentage by IHC and higher grade may predict higher Oncotype Dx scores.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31312792	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312792	cancer
European journal of breast health	The Effect of Mini-Latissimus Dorsi Flap (MLDF) Reconstruction on Shoulder Function in Breast Cancer Patients.	We conclude that MLDF application for reconstruction purposes after breast surgery has a negative impact on shoulder functions of the patients who had both of partial mastectomy and ALND.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31312791	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312791	cancer
European journal of breast health	3D Automated Breast Ultrasound System: Comparison of Interpretation Time of Senior Versus Junior Radiologist.	ABUS reading time may differ according to the experience of the user, however the times of an experienced and non-experienced user is comparable.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31312790	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312790	cancer
European journal of breast health	Imaging Findings and Clinicopathological Correlation of Breast Cancer in Women under 40 Years Old.	Breast cancer in women aged under 40 years usually presents with a self-detected palpable mass and can show different imaging findings according to the histological grade. Ultrasonography is the main modality for the diagnosis of breast cancer in young women, but mammography and magnetic resonance imaging can help in both diagnosis and evaluation of the extent of disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31312789	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312789	cancer
European journal of breast health	Breast Cancer in Turkey; An Analysis of 20.000 Patients with Breast Cancer.	Despite increasing number of screening centers and free-of-charge mammography (ages 40 to 69) and mobile screening systems in recent years, a significant portion of patients were diagnosed at advanced stage due to lack of breast cancer awareness. In contrast with the study published 5 years ago, there was a decrease in the rate of pre-menopausal women and an increase in the breast conserving surgery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31312788	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312788	cancer
Contemporary clinical trials communications	Efficacy and safety of cytokines versus first-line sunitinib and second-line axitinib for patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (ESCAPE study): A study protocol for phase III randomized sequential open-label study.	University hospital Medical Information Network (UMIN) Center identifier UMIN 000012522.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31312749	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312749	cancer
Gynecologic oncology reports	Checkpoint inhibitors in ovarian cancer: A review of preclinical data.	Ovarian cancer is the deadliest gynecologic malignancy, and relapse after initial treatment is frequently fatal. Although ovarian cancer typically has an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, a strong intratumoral T cell presence is associated with an improved response to chemotherapy and better overall prognosis. Given the success of checkpoint inhibitors in the treatment of other malignancies, there has been an attempt to replicate these results in ovarian cancer clinical trials. Preclincal studies in ovarian cancer have also been conducted over the past decade, and most of the focus has been on the use of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). Several other checkpoint inhibitors have also been investigated in various combinations with chemotherapy, oncolytic vaccines, co-stimulatory molecules, poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors, and other checkpoint inhibitors. Unfortunately, these successes have yet to translate to the clinical realm. Whether this is because the drug class is truly ineffective in ovarian cancer, or simply because the research is lacking is unclear. Either way, it is evident that preclinical data on the use of checkpoint inhibitors is woefully deficient in ovarian cancer and more research is urgently needed to inform the translation of immune checkpoint blockade into successful clinical use. In this review, we discuss the results from preclinical studies using checkpoint inhibitors to treat ovarian cancer, with a focus on strategies that show potential for clinical use.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31312712	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312712	cancer
JAAD case reports	Nivolumab in non-small cell lung cancer: A novel case of an erythema annulare centrifugum-like eruption.	 	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31312704	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312704	cancer
Data in brief	Datasets describing hydrogel properties and cellular metrics for modeling of tumor dormancy.	Breast cancer dormancy is an underlying challenge toward targeting and controlling metastatic recurrence and disease progression. Development of engineered, well-defined 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31312698	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312698	cancer
BioMed research international	Neoantigens Derived from Recurrently Mutated Genes as Potential Immunotherapy Targets for Gastric Cancer.	Neoantigens are optimal tumor-specific targets for T-cell based immunotherapy, especially for patients with "undruggable" mutated driver genes. T-cell immunotherapy can be a "universal" treatment for HLA genotype patients sharing same oncogenic mutations. To identify potential neoantigens for therapy in gastric cancer, 32 gastric cancer patients were enrolled in our study. Whole exome sequencing data from these patients was processed by TSNAD software to detect cancer somatic mutations and predict neoantigens. The somatic mutations between different patients suggested a high interpatient heterogeneity. C>A and C>T substitutions are common, suggesting an active nucleotide excision repair. The number of predicted neoantigens was significantly higher in patients at stage T1a compared to in patients at T2 or T4b. Six genes (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312661	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312661	cancer
BioMed research international	Glans Resurfacing with Skin Graft for Penile Cancer: A Step-by-Step Video Presentation of the Technique and Review of the Literature.	Glans resurfacing is an emerging new appealing surgical technique that is already a recommendation in the EAU guidelines for the treatment of premalignant and superficial penile lesions. The overall satisfaction rate and recovery of the sexual function are acceptable, and it can be considered an ideal procedure to treat superficial penile cancer.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31312658	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312658	cancer
BioMed research international	Overexpression of ICAM-1 Predicts Poor Survival in High-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma: A Study Based on TCGA and GEO Databases and Tissue Microarray.	Intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), an important adhesion molecule in the immunoglobulin superfamily, is expressed on many cell types. Recent studies have identified ICAM-1 as a potential oncogene that promotes the development of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC); it was also found to be associated with poor survival. However, the clinical significance of its expression in high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) is unclear. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the significance of ICAM-1 expression in HGSOC. Data on 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312656	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312656	cancer
Visceral medicine	Progression after Immunotherapy for Fibrolamellar Carcinoma.	While immunotherapy seems to be a promising treatment with limited side effects in several other tumor entities, there is currently no data supporting tumor response in FLC.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Switzerland	31312648	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312648	cancer
Visceral medicine	Immunotherapy: Pancreatic Cancer and Extrahepatic Biliary Tract Cancer.	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and extrahepatic biliary tract cancer (BTC) are among the malignancies with the highest morbidity and mortality. Despite increasing knowledge on biology and novel therapies, outcome remains poor in these patients. Recent progress in immunotherapies created new hopes in the treatment of PDAC and extrahepatic BTC. Several trials tested immunotherapies in various therapeutic situations as monotherapies or in combinations. Although responses were seen in some of the trials, the value of immunotherapy in PDAC and extrahepatic BTC remains unclear in the current situation, especially regarding the complex biological characteristics with a high stroma component, intrinsic resistance mechanisms and an immunosuppressive, hypoxic microenvironment. These major hurdles have to be taken into account and overcome if immunotherapies should be successful in these tumor entities. Thereby, combinational approaches that allow on the one hand targeted therapy and on the other restore or boost the function of immune cells are promising.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312647	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312647	cancer
Visceral medicine	Implications of Immunotherapy in Hepatobiliary Tumors.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related death worldwide. Upon ineligibility for resection, liver transplantation, or locoregional therapies, sorafenib has been the only systemic treatment option of advanced HCC for more than a decade. Immunotherapy is an evolving HCC treatment option that has shown promise in treatment efficacy at an acceptable safety profile during several preceding phase I/II trials. Numerous clinical trials of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICPIs) alone, in combination of two, or combined with other targeted or locoregional therapies are ongoing. Encouraging results of two-phase III trials testing pembrolizumab or nivolumab versus standard care therapy even resulted in Food and Drug Administration approval for second-line treatment of advanced HCC. ICPIs may open new avenues to the treatment of hepatobiliary tumors, alone or in combination.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312646	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312646	cancer
Visceral medicine	Immunologic Biomarkers and Biomarkers for Immunotherapies in Gastrointestinal Cancer.	Gastrointestinal (GI) cancers contribute significantly to the worldwide cancer burden. Pathologic evaluation is indispensable for the estimation of prognosis and therapeutic strategy. At present, immunotherapies are evolving into efficient therapeutic approaches, which are accompanied by the need for biomarkers to predict therapy response. In colorectal cancers, the only predictive biomarker for Food and Drug Administration-approved immunotherapy is the mismatch repair status. Besides, pathogenic 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312644	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312644	cancer
Visceral medicine	Immunotherapy in Gastrointestinal Cancer: Where Do We Stand?	 	2019	eng	Editorial	Switzerland	31312643	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312643	cancer
Frontiers in oncology	Tumor-Specific Induction of the Intrinsic Apoptotic Pathway-A New Therapeutic Option for Advanced Prostate Cancer?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312616	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312616	cancer
Frontiers in oncology	Correlation Between the NLRP3 Inflammasome and the Prognosis of Patients With LSCC.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312615	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312615	cancer
Frontiers in oncology	Robotic-Assisted Sentinel Lymph Node Mapping With Indocyanine Green in Pelvic Malignancies: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	None	2019	eng	Systematic Review	Switzerland	31312614	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312614	cancer
Frontiers in oncology	Electro-Acupuncture Promotes Accumulation of Paclitaxel by Altering Tumor Microvasculature and Microenvironment in Breast Cancer of Mice.	Targeted drug delivery could increase the efficacy of chemotherapy, however, a plethora of obstacles exist in the current targeted delivery designs. In this study, we introduce a novel avenue of targeted drug delivery using electro-acupuncture and evaluate its effect on the distribution of paclitaxel in a breast cancer mouse model. Our results show that electro-acupuncture intervention significantly increased the intratumoral concentration of paclitaxel. The mice in acupuncture group showed shorter 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312613	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312613	cancer
Frontiers in oncology	Qualitative Classification of Shear Wave Elastography for Differential Diagnosis Between Benign and Metastatic Axillary Lymph Nodes in Breast Cancer.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312611	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312611	cancer
 	The Use of Mobile Phones in Rural Javanese Villages: Knowledge Production and Information Exchange Among Poor Women with Diabetes	Previous studies have found mHealth-based smartphone applications are promising tools to help improve diabetes management and self-care. However, rural populations are often not smartphone-equipped and therefore cannot access diabetes management apps. Guided by a culture-centered approach, this chapter describes an ethnographic study of health behaviors among women in two Javanese villages. In-depth interviews were conducted with 30 female participants in Central Java, Indonesia. Grounded theory was adopted for data analysis. This study sought to unearth the existing modes of communication and it was found that—in conversation with 	2019	eng	Review	 	31314399	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314399	diabetes
 	Tensions in Diabetes Care Practice: Ethical Challenges with a Focus on Nurses in a Home-Based Care Team	Caring for patients with chronic diseases, including diabetes, causes ethical dilemmas and challenges healthcare professionals constantly during their daily work, particularly nurses. This qualitative case study concentrates on home-care nurses’ experience in diabetes care practice, where complex care takes place in a multi-professional team. The research findings show that home-care nurses experience tensions in the diabetes care context. Tensions can be identified around three themes: identification of care receivers, performance of care actions and foundations of care relationships. The healthcare environment revealed a sense of responsibility without authority, while professional caring responsibilities are not made explicit. Nurses are observably overwhelmed in diabetes care. The research findings may assist in improving diabetes care practice by clarifying the nursing professional’s roles, intensifying nurses’ professional awareness and caring competencies, as well as establishing a nourishing care environment in which all care team members share responsibility and caring.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314338	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314338	diabetes
 	Preconception and Prenatal Factors and Metabolic Risk	The prenatal period is a critical developmental stage for obesity and metabolic outcomes. In light of the global obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) epidemic and growing evidence of early life origins of obesity and diabetes, early identification of individuals at high risk and early prevention of obesity and metabolic syndrome are a key to achieve primary prevention and reverse the trends of the obesity and T2DM epidemics. This chapter will discuss the impact of important preconceptional and prenatal factors, including maternal obesity and/or diabetes, gestational weight gain, and maternal micronutrient status, on in utero and lifelong metabolic outcomes and the possible gene–environment interactions and epigenetic mechanisms underlying early life origins of metabolic risk. Finally, it will provide perspectives on current knowledge gaps and recommendations to advance the field.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314302	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314302	diabetes
 	Pregnancy Characteristics and Women’s Cardiovascular Health	Growing evidence indicates that women with a history of common pregnancy complications, including fetal growth restriction and preterm delivery (often combined as low birth weight), hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, and gestational diabetes are at increased risk for cardiovascular disease later in life. Here we review the associations of parity and these four pregnancy complications with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and the role of cardiovascular risk factors before, during, and after pregnancy complications in explaining these associations. We explore the implications of these findings for research in life course health science and policy intended to avoid or mitigate these pregnancy-related effects. Findings suggest consistent and often strong associations of pregnancy complications with latent and future cardiovascular disease. Many pregnancy complications appear to be preceded by subclinical vascular and metabolic dysfunction, suggesting that the complications may be useful markers of latent high-risk cardiovascular trajectories. Pregnancy complications may be useful in identifying high-risk women, at a relatively early stage in their life course for screening, prevention, and treatment of cardiovascular disease, the leading cause of morbidity and mortality among women.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314294	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314294	diabetes
 	Pediatric Type 2 Diabetes: Prevention and Treatment Through a Life Course Health Development Framework	Estimates project that one in three US adults may have diabetes in 2050. Until very recently, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) was a disease diagnosed in adults, but as the childhood obesity epidemic has spread, the diagnosis of T2DM in adolescents has become more common. Early indicators suggest that the disease may be more severe and more difficult to manage when diagnosed in adolescents. It is projected that adolescents with T2DM will lose approximately 15 years of life. The economic burden of T2DM rises significantly as the years with disease increase. This grim forecast highlights that not only will the disease burden be significant but the economic burden will be high. The risk for developing T2DM begins in utero. Individual health development trajectories build from this starting point, the result of multiple factors that accumulate across time and are the result of biological conditioning during sensitive developmental periods. A major aim of this chapter is to demonstrate that a life course health development approach to pediatric T2DM is critical to a sound national strategy to prevent and treat pediatric T2DM. We review major factors known to influence the development of pediatric T2DM and track these across childhood. While these factors will likely change over the next decade, what will not change is the importance of placing these factors into context and recognizing that T2DM development is highly sensitive to the timing and social structures of multiple environmental exposures. Research recommendations are discussed through a life course lens.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314290	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314290	diabetes
 	Improving Patient Cohort Identification Using Natural Language Processing	Retrieving information from structured data tables in a large database may be performed with little to no difficulty, but structured data may not always contain all that is needed to retrieve accurate information compared to narratives from clinical notes. The large volume of clinical notes, however, requires special processing to access the information contained in their unstructured format. In this case study, we present a comparison of two techniques (structured data extraction and natural language processing) and we evaluate their utility in identifying a specific patient cohort from a large clinical database.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314253	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314253	diabetes
 	 	The world is faced with an epidemic of metabolic diseases such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. This is due to changes in dietary habits and the decrease in physical activity. Exercise is usually part of the prescription, the first line of defense, to prevent or treat metabolic disorders. However, we are still learning how and why exercise provides metabolic benefits in human health. This open access volume focuses on the cellular and molecular pathways that link exercise, muscle biology, hormones and metabolism. This will include novel “myokines” that might act as new therapeutic agents in the future. 	2019	eng	Review	 	31314235	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314235	diabetes
 	 	This open access book examines the concept of care and care practices in healthcare from the interdisciplinary perspectives of continental philosophy, care ethics, the social sciences, and anthropology. Areas addressed include dementia care, midwifery, diabetes care, psychiatry, and reproductive medicine. Special attention is paid to ambivalences and tensions within both the concept of care and care practices. Contributions in the first section of the book explore phenomenological and hermeneutic approaches to care and reveal historical precursors to care ethics. Empirical case studies and reflections on care in institutionalised and standardised settings form the second section of the book. The concluding chapter, jointly written by many of the contributors, points at recurring challenges of understanding and practicing care that open up the field for further research and discussion. This collection will be of great value to scholars and practitioners of medicine, ethics, philosophy, social science and history. 	2019	eng	Review	 	31314223	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314223	diabetes
 	 	This open access handbook synthesizes and analyzes the growing knowledge base on life course health development (LCHD) from the prenatal period through emerging adulthood, with implications for clinical practice and public health. It presents LCHD as an innovative field with a sound theoretical framework for understanding wellness and disease from a lifespan perspective, replacing previous medical, biopsychosocial, and early genomic models of health. Interdisciplinary chapters discuss major health concerns (diabetes, obesity), important less-studied conditions (hearing, kidney health), and large-scale issues (nutrition, adversity) from a lifespan viewpoint. In addition, chapters address methodological approaches and challenges by analyzing existing measures, studies, and surveys. The book concludes with the editors’ research agenda that proposes priorities for future LCHD research and its application to health care practice and health policy. Topics featured in the Handbook include: The prenatal period and its effect on child obesity and metabolic outcomes. Pregnancy complications and their effect on women’s cardiovascular health. A multi-level approach for obesity prevention in children. Application of the LCHD framework to autism spectrum disorder. Socioeconomic disadvantage and its influence on health development across the lifespan. The importance of nutrition to optimal health development across the lifespan. The Handbook of Life Course Health Development is a must-have resource for researchers, clinicians/professionals, and graduate students in developmental psychology/science; maternal and child health; social work; health economics; educational policy and politics; and medical law as well as many interrelated subdisciplines in psychology, medicine, public health, mental health, education, social welfare, economics, sociology, and law.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314220	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314220	diabetes
 	 	As America's most populous state goes, so goes the nation. And within that state, the 38 counties comprising South Texas--a highly populated, largely Hispanic area characterized by high uninsured rates and low numbers of health care providers--are emblematic of nationwide crises in public health. The South Texas Health Status Review: A Health Disparities Roadmap brings health care disparities to light in instructive detail. Over thirty key health conditions and risk factors, such as breast cancer, diabetes, obesity, tuberculosis, smoking and alcohol use, lead exposure, birth defects, and homicide rates, are analyzed by age, sex, race/ethnicity, and location (urban or rural), and the results compared with the rest of Texas and the nation as a whole. A section on conclusions and recommendations outlines factors contributing to these conditions and offers suggestions for improvement. These important data should stimulate further population studies and provide impetus for targeted public health interventions and community outreach programs to reduce health inequities and advance care access in the state and the U.S. at large. Major health issues covered in the report include: • Communicable diseases • Cancer incidence and mortality • Maternal and child health • Chronic diseases • Behavioral risk factors in adults • Environmental health issues • Suicide, homicide, and vehicular mortality. The South Texas Health Status Review contains valuable lessons for researchers in health promotion and health disparities, as well as community health professionals. Policymakers involved in reducing health disparities will find it especially useful.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314218	diabetes
Medical physics	Fully Automated Identification of Skin Morphology in Raster-Scan Optoacoustic Mesoscopy using Artificial Intelligence.	SkinSeg demonstrated unique potential in identifying skin layers. The proposed method may facilitate clinical evaluation, monitoring and diagnosis of diseases linked to skin inflammation, diabetes and skin cancer. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315162	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315162	diabetes
Diabetic medicine : a journal of the British Diabetic Association	A pilot randomized controlled trial of a gratitude intervention for adolescents with Type 1 diabetes.	This is the first randomized trial of a gratitude journalling intervention for adolescents with Type 1 diabetes. Gratitude journalling interventions represent a clinically usable approach. If and how it helps to stabilise glycaemic control in adolescents with Type 1 diabetes remains to be confirmed in future research. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31315150	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315150	diabetes
Pharmacological research	Inflammation within the Neurovascular Unit: Focus on Microglia for Stroke Injury and Recovery.	Neuroinflammation underlies the etiology of multiple neurodegenerative diseases and stroke. Our understanding of neuroinflammation has evolved in the last few years and major players have been identified. Microglia, the brain resident macrophages, are considered sentinels at the forefront of the neuroinflammatory response to different brain insults. Interestingly, microglia perform other physiological functions in addition to their role in neuroinflammation. Therefore, an updated approach in which modulation, rather than complete elimination of microglia is necessary. In this review, the emerging roles of microglia and their interaction with different components of the neurovascular unit are discussed. In addition, recent data on sex differences in microglial physiology and in the context of stroke will be presented. Finally, the multiplicity of roles assumed by microglia in the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke, and in the presence of co-morbidities such as hypertension and diabetes are summarized.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31315064	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315064	diabetes
ACS nano	Gadofullerene Nanoparticles Reverse Dysfunctions of Pancreas and Improve Hepatic Insulin Resistance for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Treatment.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has been one of the most prevalent metabolic disorders. Nonetheless, the commonly used anti-T2DM drugs failed to substantially treat T2DM, which always rapidly rebound in blood glucose when withdrawal. Here we put forward a superior and sustainable anti-diabetic strategy using intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of amino acid functionalized gadofullerene nanoparticles (GFNPs) in db/db diabetic mice. Highly accumulated into pancreas and liver, GFNPs could prominently decrease hyperglycemia, along with permanently maintained normal blood sugar levels in T2DM mice even stopping administration. Importantly, GFNPs reversed the pancreas islets dysfunctions by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation responses, and fundamentally normalize the insulin secretory function of pancreas islets. Mechanistically, GFNPs improved hepatic insulin resistance by regulating glucose and lipid metabolism through the activation of IRS2/PI3K/AKT signal pathways, resulting in inhibiting gluconeogenesis and increasing glycogenesis in liver. Additionally, GFNPs relieved hepatic steatosis in liver, ultimately maintain systemic glucose and lipid metabolic homeostasis without obvious toxicity. Together, GFNPs reverse the dysfunctions of pancreas and improve hepatic insulin resistance, providing a promising approach for T2DM treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314991	diabetes
Clinical and experimental pharmacology & physiology	Hypoxic Pulmonary Vasoconstriction Is Lacking In Rats With Type 1 Diabetes.	Hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV) is the most important feature of intact lung circulation that matches local blood perfusion to ventilation. The main goal of this work was to study the effects of diabetes on the HPV development in rats. The experimental design comprised diabetes mellitus induction by streptozotocin, video-morphometric measurements of the lumen area of intrapulmonary arteries (iPAs) using perfused lung tissue slices and patch-clamp techniques. It was shown that iPA lumen size was significantly reduced under physical and chemical hypoxia (7-10 mm Hg) in normal iPA, but, on the contrary, it clearly increased in diabetic lung slices. The amplitude of the outward K	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31314914	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314914	diabetes
Diabetic medicine : a journal of the British Diabetic Association	There is value in treating elevated levels of diabetes distress: the clinical impact of targeted interventions in adults with Type 1 diabetes.	Our results showed that targeted interventions led to dramatic reductions in diabetes distress compared with a lack of treatment. We also conclude that elevated diabetes distress, when left unaddressed, does not resolve over time and often remains chronic. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314907	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314907	diabetes
Brazilian journal of medical and biological research = Revista brasileira de pesquisas medicas e biologicas	Carotid intima-media thickness and plaques in internal carotid artery as surrogate markers of lower limb arterial lesions in Chinese patients with diabetic foot.	Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) can impair healing of diabetic foot (DF) in patients with diabetes mellitus. To determine whether carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) can predict lower limb arterial lesions in patients with DF, this cross-sectional study enrolled patients with DF at West China Hospital (China) between January 2012 and December 2015. Ultrasonography was used to measure CIMT, assess the internal carotid arteries (ICA) for plaques, and evaluate lower limb segmental arteries for stenosis. The optimal CIMT cutoff for detecting lower limb PAD was determined by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Factors associated with PAD were identified by logistic regression analyses. A total of 167 patients (mean age: 69.7±10.3 years; 102 men) were included. Patients with PAD were older and had higher levels of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein than patients without PAD (P<0.05). The area under the ROC curve was 0.747 (P<0.001). At the optimal CIMT cutoff of 0.71 mm, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 79.65, 61.11, 81.08, and 58.93%, respectively. Compared with those without PAD, more patients with PAD had CIMT ≥0.71 mm (79.65 vs 38.89%; P<0.001) and ICA plaques (66.37vs 11.11%; P<0.001). Multivariate logistic regression revealed that age (odds ratio [OR]: 1.118; 95% confidence interval [95%CI]: 1.056-1.183; P<0.001), ICA plaques (OR: 13.452; 95%CI: 4.450-40.662; P<0.001), and CIMT ≥0.71 mm (OR: 2.802; 95%CI: 1.092-7.188; P=0.032) were associated with PAD.CIMT may be a surrogate marker of PAD in patients with DF.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314853	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314853	diabetes
PloS one	The role of oxidant stress and gender in the erythrocyte arginine metabolism and ammonia management in patients with type 2 diabetes.	We found evidence of a putative role of RBC as an extra-hepatic mechanism for controlling serum levels of nitrogen-related metabolites, which differs according to gender in healthy subjects. Type 2 DM promotes higher ammonia, citrulline, and MDA blood levels, which culminate in a loss of the differential management of nitrogen-related metabolites seen in healthy women and men.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314811	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314811	diabetes
PloS one	Prevalence and predictors of polypharmacy prescription among type 2 diabetes patients at a tertiary care department in Ningbo, China: A retrospective database study.	Around three fourth of T2DM patients at the tertiary care department were prescribed polypharmacy, and the predictors were identified. The study findings could be taken into consideration in future interventional studies aimed at supporting medicines optimisation (and deprescribing) among these patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314797	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314797	diabetes
PloS one	Epidemiology of limb reduction defects as registered in the Medical Birth Registry of Norway, 1970-2016: Population based study.	The MBRN now has information on LRD coded by ICD-10 from 1970, but information is not specific enough to use other recommended classification systems. Collecting radiographic descriptions and/or more details from hospital records would improve the quality of the registry data. Taking folate supplements before/during pregnancy may reduce the risk of offspring LRD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314783	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314783	diabetes
LGBT health	Estimating the Health Status of Privately Insured Gender Minority Children and Adults.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314674	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314674	diabetes
Expert review of gastroenterology & hepatology	Metoclopramide for the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314613	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314613	diabetes
Internal medicine journal	A Practical Management Approach to Gastroparesis.	Gastroparesis is a syndrome characterised by delayed gastric emptying in the absence of mechanical obstruction. Symptoms can include early satiety, abdominal pain, bloating, vomiting, and regurgitation which cause significant morbidity in addition to nutritional deficits. There is a higher prevalence in diabetics and females, but the incidence in the Australian population has not been well studied. Management of gastroparesis involves investigating and correcting nutritional deficits, optimising glycaemic control, and improving gastrointestinal motility. Symptom control in gastroparesis can be challenging. Nutritional deficits should be addressed initially through dietary modification. Enteral feeding is a second line option when oral intake is insufficient. Home parenteral nutrition is rarely used, and only accessible through specialised clinics in the outpatient setting. Prokinetic medication classes that have been used include dopamine receptor antagonists, motilin receptor agonists, 5-HT	2019	eng	Review	Australia	31314176	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314176	diabetes
Journal of diabetes investigation	Factors associated with diabetic polyneuropathy-related sensory symptoms and signs in patients with polyneuropathy: a cross-sectional Japanese study using a non-linear model.	Some modifiable factors assessed in the large survey database may be associated with DPN-related sensory symptoms/signs, namely, smoking, alcohol use, and SBP. Maintaining SBP below 130 mmHg was associated with lower odds of DPN-related sensory symptoms/signs in patients with DPN. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31314173	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314173	diabetes
Obesity (Silver Spring, Md.)	Elevated Insulin and Insulin Resistance are Associated with Altered Myelin in Cognitively Unimpaired Middle-Aged Adults.	The results suggest that insulin and IR influence white matter myelination in a cognitively unimpaired population. Additional studies are needed to determine the extent to which this may contribute to cognitive decline or vulnerability to neurodegenerative disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314172	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314172	diabetes
Internal medicine journal	Complementary medicine use and its cost in Australians with type 2 diabetes: The Fremantle Diabetes Study Phase II.	CM use in type 2 diabetes is both common and costly. Healthcare professionals should consider discussing safe and cost-effective use of CM with their patients with type 2 diabetes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31314167	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314167	diabetes
Pediatric diabetes	Comparing clinical characteristics of pediatric patients with pancreatic diabetes to patients with type 1 diabetes - a matched case-control study.	With the use of robust epidemiological data our study improves the knowledge on clinical characteristics in pediatric individuals with pancreatic diabetes. Moreover, our results serve as a basis to reconsider treatment options and for discussing clinical practice guidelines for patients with this rare medical condition. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31314155	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314155	diabetes
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism	Comorbidities and Survival in Patients with Lipodystrophy: An International Chart Review Study.	This large-scale study provides comprehensive, long-term data across multiple countries on the natural history of non-HIV-related lipodystrophy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314093	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314093	diabetes
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism	Characteristics of Slow Progression to Type 1 Diabetes in Children With Increased HLA-Conferred Disease Risk.	We observed differences in autoantibody characteristics and the season of birth among progressors, but no characteristics present at seroconversion that were specifically predictive for slow progression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314077	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314077	diabetes
Acta biochimica et biophysica Sinica	Exposure to jet lag aggravates depression-like behaviors and age-related phenotypes in rats subject to chronic corticosterone.	Our previous finding demonstrated that chronic corticosterone (CORT) may be involved in mediating the pathophysiology of premature aging in rats. Frequent jet lag increases the risk for many diseases, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, and is associated with the aging processes. However, the effect of jet lag on CORT-induced depression and its association with aging phenotypes remain unclear. In this study, the rats were exposed to both CORT and jet lag treatment, and the differences were analyzed and compared to rats with single CORT treatment. Our results showed that jet lag treatment aggravated CORT-induced depression-like behavior evidenced by sucrose intake test, forced swimming test, and open field test. Additionally, this treatment aggravated the shortening of telomeres, which possibly resulted in decreased telomerase activity, and downregulated the expression of telomere-binding factor 2 (TRF2) and telomerase reverse transcriptase compared to that in CORT rats, as revealed by quantitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis, respectively. The shortening of telomeres may have been caused by increased oxidative stress, which was associated with the inhibition of sirtuin 3. Exposure to jet lag also aggravated the degeneration of mitochondrial functions, as shown by the decreases in the mRNA expression of COX1, ND1, and Tfam. Our findings provide physiological evidence that jet lag exposure may worsen stress-induced depression and age-related abnormalities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31314053	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314053	diabetes
JAMA cardiology	Comparison of Major Adverse Cardiac Events Between Instantaneous Wave-Free Ratio and Fractional Flow Reserve-Guided Strategy in Patients With or Without Type 2 Diabetes: A Secondary Analysis of a Randomized Clinical Trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02053038.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314045	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314045	diabetes
International journal of geriatric psychiatry	Anticholinergic/Sedative Drug Burden Predicts Worse Memory Acquisition in Older Racially/Ethnically Diverse Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.	Sedative/anticholinergic drug exposure was prevalent in these diverse T2DM patients. Adjusting for covariates, greater drug burden was associated with worse memory acquisition among older adults only. Prospective studies should examine these relationships over time and assess whether dementia biomarkers affect the interaction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313847	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313847	diabetes
Organic & biomolecular chemistry	The uncommon strong inhibition of α-glucosidase by multivalent glycoclusters based on cyclodextrin scaffolds.	The homeostasis disruption of d-glucose causes diabetes, a dramatic chronic disease worldwide. Type 1 diabetes is a successfully treatable form, where blood d-glucose is regulated by insulin treatment. In contrast type 2 diabetes, the non-insulin dependent kind, is problematic. The control of the d-glucose blood level via intestinal α-d-glucosidase inactivation can be achieved by using competitive inhibitors, such as iminosugars (e.g. acarbose) or sulfonium sugar derivatives (e.g. salacinol). Recently, an unprecedented result showed that multivalent diamond nanoparticles grafted with unmodified sugars displayed α-glucosidase inhibition at low micromolar concentrations. Herein we describe the synthesis of multivalent glycoclusters using cyclodextrins (CDs) as scaffolds and an assessment of their role as inhibitors of α-d-glucosidase. The glycoclusters were efficiently obtained from per-azido α, β and γ-CD derivatives and propargyl glycosides using click-chemistry under microwave irradiation. The methodology was successfully applied to various protected and non-protected propargylated monosaccharides, including both O- and S-glycosides, giving clear evidence of its versatility. The targeted 6-per-glycosylated CDs were isolated in moderate to excellent yields (30-90%) by silica gel chromatography. The results showed inhibition of α-glucosidase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae with IC50 values in the 32-132 μM range, lower than that of acarbose (IC50 = ∼250 μM), a well-known competitive inhibitor used in the clinical treatment of type 2 diabetes. Preliminary experiments suggest a mixed-type non-competitive inhibition mode for these new glycoclusters.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313800	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313800	diabetes
JMIR diabetes	An Evaluation of Digital Health Tools for Diabetes Self-Management in Hispanic Adults: Exploratory Study.	Sensor-based tools for facilitating T2DM self-monitoring appear to be a feasible and acceptable technology among low-income Hispanic adults. We identified barriers to acceptability and highlighted preferences for wearable sensor integration in a community-based intervention. These findings have implications for the design of T2DM interventions targeting Hispanic adults.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31313657	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313657	diabetes
Journal of diabetes science and technology	The First Recall of a Diabetes Device Because of Cybersecurity Risks.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313589	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313589	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Expert Group Recommendations on Detection and Management of Hypoglycemia in Routine Clinical Practice in Insulin Treated Patients with Diabetes.	Hypoglycemia is a key barrier to optimum glycemic control in insulin treated diabetes patients. A national level expert group meeting was held at the 11th national insulin summit to analyze published data from clinical studies and guidelines to evolve consensus recommendations on identification and management of hypoglycemia in insulin-treated diabetes patients. This consensus statement emphasizes consideration of suggestive symptoms or blood glucose levels ≤70 mg/dl and ability to self-treat in identification and classification of hypoglycemia. Patient questionnaire administration at each patient visit will enable accurate reporting of hypoglycemia. Patients with strict glycemic control, high glycemic variability, history of severe hypoglycemia, impaired hypoglycemia awareness, long duration of disease or insulin therapy could be at an increased risk of hypoglycemia. Prevention of hypoglycemia should include monitoring and goal setting, patient education, dietary intervention, exercise counseling and medication adjustment. Basal insulin analogues (vs. NPH), rapid-acting insulin analogues (vs. RHI) and premix insulin analogues (vs. BHI) are more appropriate options with superiority of insulin degludec to insulin glargine U100 and IDegAsp to BIAsp 30 to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. This consensus statement provides practical guidance for physicians in effectively managing and minimizing the risk of hypoglycemia in insulin treated diabetes patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31313564	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313564	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Improving Diabetic Retinopathy Outcomes: FIELD Fenofibrate.	This brief communication describes evidence which proves the beneficial effects of fenofibrate on the retinal vasculature in type 2 diabetes, acting via both lipid lowering and non-lipid lowering mechanisms. It discusses data from FIELD and other trials to support the use of fenofibrate as a secondary preventive therapy for diabetic retinopathy. These data contrast with the lack of retinal benefit shown in major cardiovascular outcome trials of other blood pressure lowering and glucose lowering agents such as empagliflozin, liraglutide, perindopril + indapamide, and ramipril.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31313550	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313550	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	A Clinical, Biochemical Profile of Type-2 Diabetes in Women with Special Reference to Vitamin-D Status in Obese and Non-Obese.	Almost all diabetic females were with Waist circumference > 80 cm and Waist-Hip ratio > 0.8. Most of the diabetic patients have poor control of diabetes. Vitamin-D deficiency is found in almost all diabetic female patients (92.5%) and the most probable cause is poor glycemic control and obesity according to this study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31313545	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313545	diabetes
Birth defects research	Smoking and pregnancy: Epigenetics and developmental origins of the metabolic syndrome.	Maternal smoking causes lower birth weight, birth defects, and other adverse pregnancy outcomes. Epidemiological evidence over the past four decades has grown stronger and the adverse outcomes attributed to maternal smoking and secondhand smoke exposure have expanded. This review presents findings of latent and persistent metabolic effects in offspring of smoking mothers like those observed in studies of maternal undernutrition during pregnancy. The phenotype of offspring of smoking mothers is like that associated with maternal undernutrition. Born smaller than offspring of nonsmokers, these children have increased risk of being overweight or obese later. Plausible mechanisms include in utero hypoxia, nicotine-induced reductions in uteroplacental blood flow, placental toxicity, or toxic growth restriction from the many toxicants in tobacco smoke. Studies have reported increased risk of insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes and hypertension although the evidence here is weaker than for overweight/obesity. Altered DNA methylation has been consistently documented in smoking mothers' offspring, and these epigenetic alterations are extensive and postnatally durable. A causal link between altered DNA methylation and the phenotypic changes observed in offspring remains to be firmly established, yet the association is strong, and mediation analyses suggest a causal link. Studies examining expression patterns of affected genes during childhood development and associated health outcomes should be instructive in this regard. The adverse effects of exposure to tobacco smoke during pregnancy now clearly include permanent metabolic derangements in offspring that can adversely affect life-long health.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31313499	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313499	diabetes
Environmental toxicology	Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) increase rage signaling to promote downstream cardiovascular remodeling.	Exposure to environmental contaminants and consumption of a high, saturated fatty diet has been demonstrated to promote precursors for metabolic syndrome (hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia). The purpose of this study was to determine if exposure to the most prevalent environmental persistent organic pollutants (POPs) would act as causative agents to promote metabolic syndrome independent of dietary intake. We hypothesized that POPs will activate the advanced glycated end-product (AGE)-and receptor for AGE (RAGE) signaling cascade to promote downstream signaling modulators of cardiovascular remodeling and oxidative stress in the heart. At 5-weeks of age nondiabetic (WT) and diabetic (ob/ob) mice were exposed POPs mixtures by oral gavage twice a week for 6-weeks. At the end of 6-weeks, animals were sacrificed and the hearts were taken for biochemical analysis. Increased activation of the AGE-RAGE signaling cascade via POPs exposure resulted in elevated levels of fibroblast differentiation (α-smooth muscle actin) and RAGE expression indicated maladaptive cardiac remodeling. Conversely, the observed decreased superoxide dismutase-1 and -2 (SOD-1 and SOD-2) expression may exacerbate the adverse changes occurring as a result of POPs treatment to reduce innate cardioprotective mechanisms. In comparison, ventricular collagen levels were decreased in mice exposed to POPs. In conclusion, exposure to organic environmental pollutants may intensify oxidative and inflammatory stressors to overwhelm protective mechanisms allowing for adverse cardiac remodeling.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313498	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313498	diabetes
Journal of leukocyte biology	Frontline Science: Abnormalities in the gut mucosa of non-obese diabetic mice precede the onset of type 1 diabetes.	Alterations in the composition of the intestinal microbiota have been associated with development of type 1 diabetes (T1D), but little is known about changes in intestinal homeostasis that contribute to disease pathogenesis. Here, we analyzed oral tolerance induction, components of the intestinal barrier, fecal microbiota, and immune cell phenotypes in non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice during disease progression compared to non-obese diabetes resistant (NOR) mice. NOD mice failed to develop oral tolerance and had defective protective/regulatory mechanisms in the intestinal mucosa, including decreased numbers of goblet cells, diminished mucus production, and lower levels of total and bacteria-bound secretory IgA, as well as an altered IEL profile. These disturbances correlated with bacteria translocation to the pancreatic lymph node possibly contributing to T1D onset. The composition of the fecal microbiota was altered in pre-diabetic NOD mice, and cross-fostering of NOD mice by NOR mothers corrected their defect in mucus production, indicating a role for NOD microbiota in gut barrier dysfunction. NOD mice had a reduction of CD103	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313381	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313381	diabetes
Journal of cellular physiology	YAP1 is required for the angiogenesis in retinal microvascular endothelial cells via the inhibition of MALAT1-mediated miR-200b-3p in high glucose-induced diabetic retinopathy.	Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the severest complications in the development of diabetes with a characteristic of intraretinal new vessel formation. Our present study attempts to probe into the involvement of Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) in retinal microvascular endothelial cells (RMECs) and the underlying mechanism. The DR mouse model was induced by streptozotocin injection and a high-glucose/high-fat diet. After that, with the utilization of the Pearson's correlation analysis, the correlation between YAP1 and metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1) was analyzed. The relationship between microRNA-200b-3p (miR-200b-3p) and MALAT1 or vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) was then validated. Finally, the cellular processes including the abilities of proliferation, migration, as well as tube formation, were evaluated after the alteration of YAP1, MALAT1, and miR-200b-3p expression. YAP1 was observed to be highly expressed in retinas from DR mice, which promoted the cellular processes of RMECs through upregulating the MALAT1 expression. It was further confirmed that MALAT1 could sponge miR-200b-3p, and miR-200b-3p directly targeted VEGFA. When YAP1 was silenced, the RMEC proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis in the retina of DR mice were reduced. From these data, we conclude that YAP1 may exert some promotive effects on the development of DR through its regulation of the MALAT1/miR-200b-3p/VEGFA axis, highlighting that YAP1 silencing may be instrumental for the therapeutic targeting of DR.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313295	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313295	diabetes
Obesity surgery	Conversion from Prediabetes to Diabetes in Individuals with Obesity, 5-Years Post-Band, Sleeve, and Gastric Bypass Surgeries.	Our findings emphasize the importance of preoperative glycemic control and weight loss during the first year postoperatively, for the long-term prevention of diabetes in patients with prediabetes undergoing metabolic surgery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313239	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313239	diabetes
Endocrine	Clinical and molecular assessment of 13 Iranian families with Wolfram syndrome.	The current study adds to the mutation repository of WS and shows a panel of mutations in Iranian population. Such panel would facilitate genetic counseling and prenatal diagnosis in families with WS cases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313226	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313226	diabetes
Endocrine	Reporting quality of 2014-2018 clinical practice guidelines on diabetes according to the RIGHT checklist.	Overall, the CPGs on diabetes during 2014-2018 adhered to ~41% RIGHT checklist, of which Chinese CPGs adhered less than that of foreign guidelines. It is suggested that the RIGHT reporting checklist should be endorsed and used by CPG developers to ensure higher quality and adequate use of guidelines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313224	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313224	diabetes
Neurocritical care	Stress-Induced Hyperglycemia and Remote Diffusion-Weighted Imaging Lesions in Primary Intracerebral Hemorrhage.	Our study demonstrated that SIH was associated with the occurrence of R-DWILs in patients with primary ICH within 14 days of symptom onset.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313140	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313140	diabetes
Journal of nephrology	A simple risk score for prediction of sepsis associated-acute kidney injury in critically ill patients.	The novel risk score model for SA-AKI in ICU can identify patients at high risk to develop AKI. Application of this model could help clinicians to stratify patients for primary prevention, surveillance and early therapeutic intervention to improve care and prognosis of sepsis patients in ICU.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31313123	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313123	diabetes
Journal of general internal medicine	Associations of Diabetes Genetic Risk Counseling with Incident Diabetes and Weight: 5-Year Follow-up of a Randomized Controlled Trial.	 	2019	eng	Letter	United States	31313118	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313118	diabetes
Acta diabetologica	Vision-related quality of life and locus of control in type 1 diabetes: a multicenter observational study.	These results confirm that a gap exists between patients' knowledge and expectations on retinopathy and providers' expertise and assumptions. To bridge this gap, patient-centered education and engaging approaches may be more effective than simple information given during consultations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313005	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313005	diabetes
Inflammation	Uremic Serum Induces Inflammation in Cultured Human Endothelial Cells and Triggers Vascular Repair Mechanisms.	Inflammation and cardiovascular disease (CVD) are common in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients whose vascular endothelium is in direct contact with the uremic toxins found in the blood. These toxins are believed to affect vascular injury and repair process, which is impaired in ESRD patients. The exact mechanisms behind these interactions are not clear. So, we wanted to investigate what happens at the molecular level of endothelial cells when exposed to uremic serum from ESRD patients with diabetes and/or hypertension and its effect on the expression of molecules associated with vascular injury and repair. Cultured human endothelial cells (ECV304) were incubated in the presence of normal or uremic sera from ESRD patients with diabetes and/or hypertension. The expressions of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) were investigated in endothelial cells (ECV304) by real-time PCR and ELISA. The expression of MCP-1, VEGF, and SDF-1 was elevated in endothelial cells upon exposure to uremic sera from ESRD patients with diabetes and/or hypertension when compared with cells treated with healthy serum. MCP-1 expression in endothelial cells treated with uremic serum from ESRD patients with hypertension only was significantly increased compared with its expression in other cohorts. Exposure of endothelial cells to uremic serum causes endothelial injury and inflammation characterized by an increase in MCP-1 expression. This injury activates the initiation of vascular repair process in these cells by increasing the expression of VEGF and SDF-1. These molecules can be important biomarkers of chronic kidney disease-associated CVD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312972	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312972	diabetes
Abdominal radiology (New York)	Relationship between abdominal fat stores and liver fat, pancreatic fat, and metabolic comorbidities in a pediatric population with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	In our population, there was an association between ethnicity and LFF, with the highest LFF in Hispanics. The presence or severity of hepatic steatosis could not be predicted based on patient size or the distribution of abdominal fat in our cohort. Neither LFF nor PFF were predictive of T2DM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312893	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312893	diabetes
Health equity	Racial/Ethnic Differences in Cardiometabolic Risk in a Community Sample of Sexual Minority Women.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312782	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312782	diabetes
Journal of preventive medicine and hygiene	Assessment of oral hygiene trends among dental patients in relation to chronic medical conditions by dental students. A cross-sectional study.	There is scarcity of data regarding dental healthcare knowledge and attitudes in dental clinical settings. Additional clinical training for dental students would increase their willingness to play a preventive and educational role in the oral care of patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31312740	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312740	diabetes
Global health research and policy	Implementation and fidelity of a participatory learning and action cycle intervention to prevent and control type 2 diabetes in rural Bangladesh.	Our complex intervention was implemented as planned and is likely to be valid in similar contexts given the flexibility of the participatory approach to contextually specific barriers to prevention and control of type 2 diabetes. Fidelity to the participatory approach is key to implementing the intervention and effectively addressing type 2 diabetes in a low-income country.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312722	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312722	diabetes
IDCases	Probable 	None	2019	eng	Case Reports	Netherlands	31312601	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312601	diabetes
Journal of general and family medicine	Challenges to hemoglobin A1c as a therapeutic target for type 2 diabetes mellitus.	Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) is widely accepted as the most reliable measure of long-term glycemia. However, there is disagreement among professional medical societies on a proper glycemic target for long-term benefits in type 2 diabetes (T2D). The use of some glucose-lowering drugs was associated with heart failure despite substantial lowering of HbA1c. The failure of intensive glycemic control to reduce cardiovascular risk in some trials again brought into question the usefulness of HbA1c as a therapeutic target in T2D. In large cardiovascular outcome trials, some newer glucose-lowering drugs were associated with higher risks of heart failure or amputation despite comparable glycemic control between the test and placebo groups. Here, we provide evidence that variation in hemoglobin glycation between individuals is responsible for these inconsistencies. We suggest that further research be conducted in this area and that the findings be applied to clinical trials and practice.	2019	eng	Review	Japan	31312579	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312579	diabetes
Cureus	A Successful Outcome Despite Delayed Intervention for Cauda Equina Syndrome in a Young Patient with a Posterior Epidural Disc Extrusion.	Epidural disc extrusion is extremely rare and may cause cauda equina syndrome. This is a surgical emergency and needs rapid decompression. Although cauda equina is commonly caused by disc herniation, this is an unusual presentation with epidural disc extrusion. We present a very rare case of Cauda Equina syndrome, resulting from an epidural disc extrusion at L3-L4 level. Patient care and progress notes were reviewed along with pre-, post-, and intra-operative radiological imaging. Here, a 19-year-old male with a past medical history of type I diabetes mellitus, fell asleep on a chair at home in an unusual position and was unable to walk on awakening. The patient developed progressive neurological deficits including bilateral foot drop along with bowel and bladder dysfunction. In addition, he experienced paresthesia and severe lower back pain unresponsive to steroids. Pre-operative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated a herniated disk epidurally with disc extrusion and mass effect and compression at the L3-L4 level, wrapping around the posterior aspect of the dura. A diagnosis of cauda equina syndrome was made and surgical decompression was performed. Using microsurgical technique and fluoroscopic guidance, a bilateral laminectomy of L3 was achieved with bilateral partial laminectomy of L4, with bilateral foraminotomy of L4. After removal of the lamina, a mass was immediately visualized in the posterior epidural space. Further dissection of the substance and following it posteriorly, identified the mass as a portion of the extruded disc. Post-operatively, the patient experienced rapid recovery. In conclusion, this case demonstrates that a disc extrusion can occur within the epidural space and can cause cauda equina syndrome. As this presentation is unusual, surgeons must be aware that they may encounter disc mass in unexpected locations, in a clinically delayed setting, long after the initial onset of symptoms.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31312571	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312571	diabetes
Multidisciplinary respiratory medicine	Long term management of obstructive sleep apnea and its comorbidities.	Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a worldwide highly prevalent disease associated with systemic consequences, including excessive sleepiness, impairment of neurocognitive function and daytime performance, including driving ability. The long-term sequelae of OSA include and increase risk for cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and metabolic syndrome disorders that ultimately lead to premature death if untreated. To ensure optimal long-term outcomes, the assessment and management of OSA should be personalized with the involvement of the appropriate specialist. Most studies have demonstrated inmediate improvement in daytime somnolence and quality of life with CPAP and other therapies, but the effect of long-term treatment on mortality is still under debate. Currently, the long-term management of OSA should be based on a) identifying physiological or structural abnormalities that are treatable at the time of patient evaluation and b) comprehensive lifestyle interventions, especially weight-loss interventions, which are associated with improvements in OSA severity, cardiometabolic comorbidities, and quality of life. In long-term management, attention should be paid to the clinical changes related to a potential reoccurrence of OSA symptoms and it is also necessary to monitor throughout the follow up how the main associated comorbidities evolve.	2019	eng	Review	England	31312448	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312448	diabetes
American journal of translational research	MicroRNA-155 mimics ameliorates nerve conduction velocities and suppresses hyperglycemia-induced pro-inflammatory genes in diabetic peripheral neuropathic mice.	Treatment of miR-155 mimic in db/db mice attenuated DN, suppressed diabetic associated proinflammatory genes and confirmed miR-155 mimic as therapeutic strategy for treating DN.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312398	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312398	diabetes
American journal of translational research	Artemether improves type 1 diabetic kidney disease by regulating mitochondrial function.	Many patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus suffer from progressive diabetic kidney disease (DKD). The progression of DKD is largely attributed to mitochondrial dysfunction, with key contributions from mitochondrial reactive oxygen species. Recent studies have revealed that the antimalarial drug artemether has antidiabetic effects. To identify potential effects on type 1 DKD in the present study, mice with streptozotocin-induced diabetes were treated with artemether. Treatment reduced urinary excretion of albumin and tubular injury biomarkers, increased serum albumin and total protein levels, and attenuated renal hypertrophy. In addition, artemether treatment prevented hyperglycemia, raised serum insulin levels, and restored glucagon/insulin and somatostatin/insulin ratios in islets. We found that artemether improved mitochondrial function and regulated redox balance in kidney. These results demonstrate that artemether provides renal protection in type 1 diabetes mellitus, which may be due to improved mitochondrial function.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312396	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312396	diabetes
American journal of translational research	Real-time observation of pancreatic beta cell differentiation from human induced pluripotent stem cells.	Directed differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) into functional insulin-producing cells (IPCs) holds great promise for cell therapy for diabetic patients. Despite recent advances in developing beta cell differentiation protocols, it is becoming clear that the hPSC-derived beta-like cells are functionally immature, and the efficiencies of differentiation can be variable depending on the hPSC lines used. Therefore, advanced methodologies are highly desirable for the development and refinement of beta cell differentiation protocols from hPSCs. In this report, we first derived and validated a Pdx1-mRFP/insulin-hrGFP dual-reporter cell line from MRC5-iPSCs. Then, using this dual-reporter cell line, we developed and optimized an 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312361	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312361	diabetes
American journal of translational research	Insulin treatment enhances pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm formation by increasing intracellular cyclic di-GMP levels, leading to chronic wound infection and delayed wound healing.	Diabetes-related infections have become challenging and important public health problems in China and around the world. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312343	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312343	diabetes
The Pan African medical journal	Maternal and foetal medical conditions during pregnancy as determinants of intrapartum stillbirth in public health facilities of Addis Ababa: a case-control study.	untreated chronic medical conditions, infection, poor monitoring of foetal conditions and multiple pregnancy are among important risk factors for intrapartum stillbirth.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312337	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312337	diabetes
The Pan African medical journal	Relationship between dry eye and glycosylated haemoglobin among diabetics in Ibadan, Nigeria.	dry eye is fairly common among patients with diabetes mellitus with most frequent symptoms being gritty sensation and blurred vision. No significant correlation was noted between dry eye and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312330	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312330	diabetes
The Pan African medical journal	Prevalence and predisposing factors of brachial plexus birth palsy in a regional hospital in Ghana: a five year retrospective study.	There is the need to provide a nationwide education on the risk factors that predispose babies to brachial plexus birth palsy. There is also the need for frequent antenatal visit by pregnant women; this will help in the provision of best antenatal history, diagnostic investigation in determining the birth weight and safe mode of delivery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312323	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312323	diabetes
The Pan African medical journal	[Nephrogenic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis].	Disorders of water balance are a disease commonly encountered in our clinical practice. Analysis of vasopressin receptor type II (V2R) is essential to understand the physiology of water balance and it is used as a biological prototype of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Nephrogenic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuresis (NSIAD) is a syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) with low plasmatic vasopressin. The evidence on the role of V2 receptor and of aquaporin (AQP) in the mechanism of action for antidiuretic hormone (ADH) was based on the identification of protein gene mutations in patients with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and NSIAD syndrome. V2R activating mutations were found in patients with NSIAD, contrasting with the numerous V2R inactivating mutations related to X-linked mutations described in patients with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.	2019	fre	Review	Uganda	31312322	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312322	diabetes
The Pan African medical journal	[Clinical and progressive profile of skin and soft tissue lesions in diabetics in 2017 at the dressing room of the Marc Sankale Center in Dakar].	Skin and soft tissue lesions were dominated by diabetic foot. Mortality is not negligible and the risk of amputation was statistically related to the topographical features of the lesion, the type of lesion, the seniority and the type of diabetes and the presence of osteitis.	2019	fre	Journal Article	Uganda	31312321	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312321	diabetes
Diabetology & metabolic syndrome	Genetic associations between Transcription Factor 7 Like 2 rs7903146 polymorphism and type 2 diabetes mellitus: a meta-analysis of 115,809 subjects.	In conclusion, our findings supported that 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312259	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312259	diabetes
Diabetology & metabolic syndrome	TCF7L2 regulates pancreatic β-cell function through PI3K/AKT signal pathway.	This study demonstrated that TCF7L2 is closely bound to the specific binding regions of PIK3R1 promoter and prominently controls the transcription of its encoding protein p85, which further affects the activation of PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and insulin secretion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312258	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312258	diabetes
Diabetes	Polysaccharide A-Dependent Opposing Effects of Mucosal and Systemic Exposures to Human Gut Commensal 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311801	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311801	diabetes
Diabetes	Early Detection of Peripheral Blood Cell Signature in Children Developing Beta-Cell Autoimmunity at a Young Age.	The appearance of Type 1 diabetes (T1D)-associated autoantibodies is the first and only measurable parameter to predict progression toward T1D in genetically susceptible individuals. However, autoantibodies indicate an active autoimmune reaction, wherein the immune tolerance is already broken. Therefore, there is a clear and urgent need for new biomarkers that predict the onset of the autoimmune reaction preceding autoantibody positivity or reflect progressive beta-cell destruction. Here we report the mRNA-sequencing-based analysis of 306 samples including fractionated samples of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells as well as CD4-CD8- cells fractions and unfractionated PBMC samples longitudinally collected from seven children that developed beta-cell autoimmunity (Cases) at a young age and their matched controls. We identified transcripts, including interleukin-32 (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311800	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311800	diabetes
DNA repair	Roles of OGG1 in transcriptional regulation and maintenance of metabolic homeostasis.	Cellular damage produced by conditions generating oxidative stress have far-reaching implications in human disease that encompass, but are not restricted to aging, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, airway inflammation/asthma, cancer, and metabolic syndrome including visceral obesity, insulin resistance, fatty liver disease, and dyslipidemia. Although there are numerous sources and cellular targets of oxidative stress, this review will highlight literature that has investigated downstream consequences of oxidatively-induced DNA damage in both nuclear and mitochondrial genomes. The presence of such damage can in turn, directly and indirectly modulate cellular transcriptional and repair responses to such stressors. As such, the persistence of base damage can serve as a key regulator in coordinated gene-response cascades. Conversely, repair of these DNA lesions serves as both a suppressor of mutagenesis and by inference carcinogenesis, and as a signal for the cessation of ongoing oxidative stress. A key enzyme in all these processes is 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1), which, via non-catalytic binding to oxidatively-induced DNA damage in promoter regions, serves as a nucleation site around which changes in large-scale regulation of inflammation-associated gene expression can occur. Further, the catalytic function of OGG1 can alter the three-dimensional structure of specialized DNA sequences, leading to changes in transcriptional profiles. This review will concentrate on adverse deleterious health effects that are associated with both the diminution of OGG1 activity via population-specific polymorphic variants and the complete loss of OGG1 in murine models. This mouse model displays diet- and age-related induction of metabolic syndrome, highlighting a key role for OGG1 in protecting against these phenotypes. Conversely, recent investigations using murine models having enhanced global expression of a mitochondrial-targeted OGG1 demonstrate that they are highly resistant to diet-induced disease. These data suggest strategies through which therapeutic interventions could be designed for reducing or limiting adverse human health consequences to these ubiquitous stressors.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31311771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311771	diabetes
Journal of the American Pharmacists Association : JAPhA	Description of a pharmacist-led diabetes prevention service within an employer-based wellness program.	This pilot demonstrated that opportunistic A1C testing could be incorporated into an ambulatory care clinic within a pharmacist-led employer-based wellness program. Uptake and retention of the NDPP were poor. Barriers to NDPP participation need to be investigated and addressed to improve service impact.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311759	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311759	diabetes
Journal of the American Pharmacists Association : JAPhA	Examining the use of network meta-analysis in pharmacy services research: A systematic review.	This study demonstrated a paucity of studies using network meta-analysis techniques in evaluating pharmacist-provided services. This could be due to the lack of confidence in using this method, because network meta-analysis requires several additional assumptions that require careful consideration while performing the analysis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311758	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311758	diabetes
Transfusion and apheresis science : official journal of the World Apheresis Association : official journal of the European Society for Haemapheresis	Topical effect of allogenous serum rich in growth factors (SRGF) on diabetic skin wound in rat.	Diabetic foot ulcer is a major complication of diabetes mellitus with negative effects on the life quality. Management of diabetic foot ulcers is a big challenge with poor and low sufficient outcome management. Therefore, achievement to effective treatments may treat these ulcers. Nowdays, platelet products are used as an effective and safe agent for promotion of healing proposes in regenerative medicine. Serum rich in growth factors (SRGF) is a source of released growth factors from the platelets. In the present study, effect of allogenous SRGF was investigated on the streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic wounds in rats. STZ (50 mg/kh, SC) caused significant increase in blood glucose and weight loss in rats. Full thickness cutaneous wounds (8 mm diameter) were created bilaterally on the dorsal of the diabetic rats. SRGF was injected at the edges of the wounds of one side only on the first day, and the contrary sides were considered as the control group. The percentage of wound contraction was demonstrared on day 3, 7, 11 after surgery. Tissue specimens were collected for microscopic study on days 7 and 14. Results showed a significant higher rate of wound contraction on days 5 and 7 in the treated group. Histopathologic findings displayed acceleration of re-epithelialization, increased angiogenesis and dense collagen fibers with better organization in the treated group. Current study suggests that SRGF was efficient because facilate wound healing and showed rapid re-epithelialization and increased angiogenesis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311752	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311752	diabetes
Canadian journal of diabetes	Is Age a Risk Factor for Cerebral Edema in Children With Diabetic Ketoacidosis? A Literature Review.	Cerebral edema (CE) is a rare but potentially fatal complication of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in children with type 1 diabetes. CE is frequently mentioned as being more common in young children. The primary objective of this study was to review the evidence suggesting that younger age is a risk factor for the development of CE during DKA. The secondary objective was to assess if younger children are at a higher risk of DKA and severe DKA. A literature review was performed, and studies which reported the frequency of CE, DKA and severe DKA in children <3 and 3 to 5 years of age were included. Among the 6 studies reporting the frequency of CE that were identified, 5 good-quality studies found no significant association between younger age and higher risk of CE. Twenty-seven studies (DKA frequency: 11.3% to 54%) reported DKA frequency as a function of age. Most published studies found a higher frequency of DKA in children <5 years of age (20/25 studies), and in particular in those in the first 2 to 3 years of life (8/8 studies). There was inconclusive evidence to determine whether the severity of DKA was influenced by age. In conclusion, the commonly held view that CE is more common in younger children is not supported by the existing literature. Published data suggest that DKA (and possibly severe DKA) is more common in very young children. Regardless of age, all children with DKA should be monitored carefully for the development of CE.	2019	eng	Review	Canada	31311730	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311730	diabetes
Canadian journal of diabetes	Capturing Adult Patient Preferences Toward Benefits and Risks of Second-Line Antihyperglycemic Medications Used in Type 2 Diabetes: A Discrete Choice Experiment.	All 8 characteristics were shown to significantly influence choice, with cost and life expectancy carrying the most weight and serious and minor side effects carrying the least weight.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31311729	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311729	diabetes
Canadian journal of diabetes	Effect of Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy on Fatty Acid Composition and Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding Protein 1 in Adult Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus Patients: A Pilot Study.	Our results indicate that HBOT exerts beneficial effects in IDDM patients by improving the lipid profile and altering FA composition.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31311728	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311728	diabetes
Primary care diabetes	Development and evaluation educational videos of diabetic foot care in traditional languages to enhance knowledge of patients diagnosed with diabetes and risk for diabetic foot ulcers.	This study produced an educational video that used the trans-cultural approach by using traditional languages to overcome the communication barrier in the process of knowledge transfer. We found that the educational video in traditional languages enhanced the patients' knowledge about diabetic foot care and thus could enable them to detect the risks for DFU and prevent DFU.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311727	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311727	diabetes
Journal of the American Society of Echocardiography : official publication of the American Society of Echocardiography	ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: Prognostic Implications of Right Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction as Assessed with Two-Dimensional Speckle-Tracking Echocardiography.	In a STEMI population with relatively preserved LVEF, COPD patients had significantly worse RV FWSL compared with patients without COPD. Moreover, RV FWSL > -20% was independently associated with worse survival. In contrast, conventional parameters were not associated with survival.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311703	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311703	diabetes
The American journal of cardiology	Cardiovascular Disease Risk Across a Spectrum of Adverse Plasma Lipid Combinations by Gender and Glycemic Status.	High triglycerides (TG), low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and high non-HDL-C levels are risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). It is unclear whether the combinations of their adverse changes are related with CVD risk in different gender and diabetes status, particularly in Chinese population. This study aims to evaluate the CVD risk associated with different adverse lipid combinations. A total of 38,989 participants from Chinese Multicenter Longitudinal Health Management Cohorts (mean age 42 years; 62% male) without baseline CVD were followed up for incident CVD from 2007 to 2015. Participants with various combinations of baseline TG, non-HDL-C, and HDL-C levels within- or out of range according to Adult Treatment Panel III were grouped into 8 distinct lipid categories. Cox models estimated the multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of different lipid categories for CVD. After multivariable adjustment, a low level of HDL-C combined with either a high level of non-HDL-C alone or TG alone were associated with increased CVD risk with adjusted HRs (95% CIs) of 1.77 (1.36 to 2.30) and 2.08 (1.30 to 3.34) in male participants. Diabetic participants with high non-HDL-C and low HDL-C levels (adjusted HR 2.93, 95% CI 1.15 to 7.46), and non-diabetic participants with high TG and low HDL-C levels (adjusted HR 1.73, 95% CI 1.33 to 2.26) had greater risk of incident CVD. These relations remained significant when limited analysis to participants with normal LDL-C levels of <3.4 mmol/L, indicating the various combinations of out-of-range lipid profiles other than LDL-C are associated with different CVD risk and the associations depend on gender and glycemic status.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311663	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311663	diabetes
Stem cell research & therapy	In vivo tracking on longer retention of transplanted myocardin gene-modified adipose-derived stem cells to improve erectile dysfunction in diabetic rats.	Myocardin induced ASC differentiation towards smooth muscle-like cells and enhanced the therapeutic potential of ASCs for ameliorating ED in STZ-induced diabetic rats. Notably, in vivo small animal tracking was an effective strategy for monitoring the implanted stem cells, and this strategy might have advantages over traditional EdU assays.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311594	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311594	diabetes
BMC medicine	Medication management support in diabetes: a systematic assessment of diabetes self-management apps.	A large proportion of diabetes self-management apps lacked features for enhancing medication adherence and safety. More emphasis should be given to the design of medication management features in diabetes apps to improve their alignment to evidence-based best practice.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311573	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311573	diabetes
Journal of translational medicine	Personalizing the safe, appropriate and effective concentration(s) of ozone for a non-diabetic individual and four type II diabetic patients in autohemotherapy through blood hemoglobin analysis.	A number of techniques were used to determine the personalized ozone concentration(s) for a safe and effective autohemotherapy based on blood hemoglobin analysis. SDS-PAGE and dynamic light scattering were identified as the two main techniques needed for personalizing the ozone concentration(s) for each individual as otherwise hemoglobin in blood can oligomerise and cause serious damage if the inappropriate ozone concentration is used.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311548	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311548	diabetes
BMC pregnancy and childbirth	Change in prevalence of gestational diabetes and obstetric complications when applying IADPSG screening criteria in a Belgian French speaking University Hospital. A retrospective cohort study.	In our population the introduction of IADPSG screening criteria has increased the prevalence of GDM without having a statistically significant impact on pregnancy outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311547	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311547	diabetes
BMC infectious diseases	Interaction of nutritional status and diabetes on active and latent tuberculosis: a cross-sectional analysis.	BMI and diabetes are associated with newly diagnosed active TB, but not LTBI. Diabetes conferred the greatest risk of active TB in overweight and obese adults whereas the burden of active TB associated with diabetes was similar for normal and overweight or obese adults. Hyperglycemia was common among all active TB patients. These findings highlight the importance of bi-directional diabetes-active TB screening in India.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311495	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311495	diabetes
Stem cells and development	Expansion and Maintenance of CD133-Expressing Pancreatic Ductal Epithelial Cells via Inhibition of Transforming Growth Factor-β Signaling.	Restoring β-cell mass by the transplantation of pancreatic islets is an effective diabetes treatment, but it is limited by the shortage of donor organs. CD133-expressing pancreatic ductal epithelial cells (PDECs) have the ability to generate insulin-producing cells. The expansion of these cells is dependent on extrinsic niche factors, but few of those signals have been identified. In this study, CD133-expressing PDECs were purified by sorting from adult wild-type C57BL/6 mice and TGFβRIInull/null mice. Furthermore, using immunofluorescence and transplantation assays, we found that the inhibition of the TGF-β pathway promoted the expansion of CD133-expressing PDECs for many generations and maintained the ability of CD133-expressing PDECs to generate insulin-producing cells. Moreover, western blot, qRT-PCR, and dual luciferase assays using TGF-β inhibitors were performed to identify the mechanisms by which TGF-β signaling regulates proliferation and differentiation. The results showed that the inhibition of TGF-β signaling enhanced Id2 binding to the promoter region of the cell proliferation repressor p16 and promoted the expansion of CD133-expressing PDECs, and the increased Id2 binding to NeuroD1 decreased the transcription of Pax6 to maintain CD133-expressing PDECs in the Pdx1-expression stage. Taken together, the effect of TGF-β antagonists on CD133-expressing PDECs reveals a novel paradigm of signaling that explains the balance between the expansion and differentiation of pancreatic duct epithelial progenitors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311463	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311463	diabetes
Gut microbes	Gut microbiota composition explains more variance in the host cardiometabolic risk than genetic ancestry.	Cardiometabolic affections greatly contribute to the global burden of disease. The susceptibility to obesity, cardiovascular disease, and type-2 diabetes, conditions that add to the cardiometabolic syndrome (CMS), was associated with the ancestral genetic composition and gut microbiota. Studies explicitly testing associations between genetic ancestry and gut microbes are growing. We here examined whether the host genetic ancestry was associated with gut microbiota composition, and distinguished the effects of genetic ancestry and non-genetic factors on human cardiometabolic health. We performed a cross-sectional study with 441 community-dwelling Colombian mestizos from five cities spanning the Andes, Pacific, and Caribbean coasts. We characterized the host genetic ancestry by genotyping 40 ancestry informative markers; characterized gut microbiota through 16S rRNA gene sequencing; assessed diet intake, physical activity, cigarette, and medicament consumption; and measured cardiometabolic outcomes that allowed calculating a CMS risk scale. On average, each individual of our cohort was 67 ± 6% European, 21 ± 5% Native American and 12 ± 5% African. Multivariable-adjusted generalized linear models showed that individuals with higher Native American and African ancestries had increased fasting insulin, body mass index and CMS risk, as assessed by the CMS risk scale. Furthermore, we identified 21 OTUs associated to the host genetic ancestry and 20 to cardiometabolic health. While we highlight novel associations between genetic ancestry and gut microbiota, we found that the effect of intestinal microbes was more likely to explain the variance in CMS risk scale than the contributions of European, Native American and African genetic backgrounds.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311405	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311405	diabetes
Adipocyte	Insulin-induced lipid body accumulation is accompanied by lipid remodelling in model mast cells.	Mast cell lipid bodies are key to initiation, maintenance and resolution of inflammatory responses in tissue. Mast cell lines, primary bone marrow-derived mast cells and peripheral blood basophils present a 'steatotic' phenotype in response to chronic insulin exposure, where cells become loaded with lipid bodies. Here we show this state is associated with reduced histamine release, but increased capacity to release bioactive lipids. We describe the overall lipid phenotype of mast cells in this insulin-induced steatotic state and the consequences for critical cellular lipid classes involved in stages of inflammation. We show significant insulin-induced shifts in specific lipid classes, especially arachidonic acid derivatives, MUFA and PUFA, the EPA/DHA ratio, and in cardiolipins, especially those conjugated to certain DHA and EPAs. Functionally, insulin exposure markedly alters the FcεRI-induced release of Series 4 leukotriene LTC4, Series 2 prostaglandin PGD2, Resolvin-D1, Resolvin-D2 and Resolvin-1, reflecting the expanded precursor pools and impact on both the pro-inflammation and pro-resolution bioactive lipids that are released during mast cell activation. Chronic hyperinsulinemia is a feature of obesity and progression to Type 2 Diabetes, these data suggest that mast cell release of key lipid mediators is altered in patients with metabolic syndrome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311389	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311389	diabetes
Postgraduate medicine	Insulin Therapy in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes and High Insulin Resistance is Associated with Increased Risk of Complications and Mortality.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311382	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311382	diabetes
The Journal of international medical research	The Niemann-Pick C1-like 1 rs2073547 polymorphism is associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus in a Chinese population.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311377	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311377	diabetes
Postgraduate medicine	Statin-induced new onset of diabetes in dyslipidemic patients: a retrospective study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311373	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311373	diabetes
Journal of medical economics	Evaluating the burden of poor glycemic control associated with therapeutic inertia in patients with type 2 diabetes in the UK.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311364	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311364	diabetes
Expert review of cardiovascular therapy	Should all diabetic patients be on aspirin for primary prevention?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311357	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311357	diabetes
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	Misfolded proinsulin impairs processing of precursor of insulin receptor and insulin signaling in β cells.	Insulin resistance in classic insulin-responsive tissues is a hallmark of type 2 diabetes (T2D). However, the pathologic significance of β-cell insulin resistance and the underlying mechanisms contributing to defective insulin signaling in β cells remain largely unknown. Emerging evidence indicates that proinsulin misfolding is not only the molecular basis of mutant 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311313	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311313	diabetes
Journal of diabetes science and technology	Clinical Evaluation of a New, Lower Pain, One Touch Lancing Device for People With Diabetes: Virtually Pain-Free Testing and Improved Comfort Compared to Current Lancing Systems.	OTDP demonstrated lower pain than the original OTD lancing system and participants agreed that testing with OTDP was virtually pain free and less painful than using their current lancing systems.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311312	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311312	diabetes
Therapeutic innovation & regulatory science	Impact of FDA-Required Cardiovascular Outcome Trials on Type 2 Diabetes Clinical Study Initiation From 2008 to 2017.	These observations are consistent with the statements made by industry representatives and patient advocates at the 2018 Advisory Committee meeting. As the FDA reconsiders postmarket requirements for T2DM products, these observations underscore the importance of considering more efficient postmarket study structures to assess cardiovascular safety beyond mandatory CVOTs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311308	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311308	diabetes
Clinical and applied thrombosis/hemostasis : official journal of the International Academy of Clinical and Applied Thrombosis/Hemostasis	Thrombin Generation in Chinese Pregnant Women and the Effect of Insulin Use on Thrombin Generation in Patients with GDM.	Pregnancy is a hypercoagulable state associated with an increased risk of venous thrombosis. Calibrated automated thrombogram (CAT) is a test to monitor the thrombin generation (TG), a laboratory marker of thrombosis risk, and increases during normal pregnancy, but it is still unclear whether TG is related to the use of insulin in pregnant women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). We performed thrombin generation by CAT on 135 normal pregnant women, including 43 in first trimester, 32 in second trimester, 60 in third trimester, respectively; 68 pregnant women with GDM were also enrolled, 19 patients with GDM using insulin to control blood glucose and 49 patients control their blood glucose through diet and exercise with noninsulin treatment. The overall CAT parameters were calculated using descriptive statistics method with mean ± standard deviation. Mean endogenous thrombin potential, peak thrombin generation, and StartTail time increased significantly with the pregnancy. There was no significant difference in TG test parameters except StartTail time(	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311294	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311294	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Prevalence and Factors Associated with Gestational Diabetes Mellitus among Antenatal Women at a Rural Health Center in Vellore.	Hospital based prevalence of GDM was 14% (95 % CI: 11.3% to 16.7%) and a significant rise in prevalence levels was noted with age. Women with family history of diabetes mellitus, women with body fat of more than 23% had 2.65 and 2.89 times significantly higher odds of developing GDM. Interpretation and conclusion: Family history of diabetes and excess body fat are risk factors associated with GDM. Among them excess body fat could be an independent risk factor without the influence of foetal weight and preventive measures could be directed towards it.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31311218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311218	diabetes
Nutrients	Exercise Alleviates Cognitive Functions by Enhancing Hippocampal Insulin Signaling and Neuroplasticity in High-Fat Diet-Induced Obesity.	Obesity, caused by a high-fat diet (HFD), leads to insulin resistance, which is a precursor of diabetes and a risk factor for impaired cognitive function, dementia, and brain diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease. Physical exercise has positive effects on obesity and brain functions. We investigated whether the decline in cognitive function caused by a HFD could be improved through exercise by examining insulin signaling pathways and neuroplasticity in the hippocampus. Four-week-old C57BL/6 male mice were fed a HFD or a regular diet for 20 weeks, followed by 12 weeks of treadmill exercise. To ascertain the effects of treadmill exercise on impaired cognitive function caused by obesity, the present study implemented behavioral testing (Morris water maze, step-down). Moreover, insulin-signaling and neuroplasticity were measured in the hippocampus and dentate gyrus. Our results demonstrated that HFD-fed obesity-induced insulin resistance was improved by exercise. In addition, the HFD group showed a decrease in insulin signaling and neuroplasticity in the hippocampus and the dentate gyrus and increased cognitive function impairment, which were reversed by physical exercise. Overall, our findings indicate that physical exercise may act as a non-pharmacologic method that protects against cognitive dysfunction caused by obesity by improving hippocampal insulin signaling and neuroplasticity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311133	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311133	diabetes
 	Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common complication of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Most times it is an unrecognized comorbidity to the primary care provider and endocrinologist. Today it is the most common chronic liver disease in developed countries. It is characterized by insulin resistance and hepatic triglyceride accumulation in the absence of co-existing etiologies, such as excessive alcohol consumption, viral hepatitis, medications or other etiologies for hepatic steatosis. Its more severe form of the disease with steatohepatitis (NASH) is associated with hepatocyte injury (necrosis and inflammation) and frequently with fibrosis. Although it appears to be an indolent condition, with few symptoms and often normal plasma aminotransferases, NASH is a leading cause of end-stage liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and significantly increases the risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD) and T2DM. The pathogenesis of NASH remains poorly understood, and likely to be multifactorial, but insulin-resistant adipose tissue plays an important role. The natural history of NAFLD is incompletely understood, but risk factors for disease progression include weight gain, obesity and T2DM, as well as the severity of fibrosis stage at diagnosis. Diagnostic algorithms are evolving but we offer an approach that integrates for the non-hepatologist plasma biomarkers, imaging, and the role of liver biopsy for the management of these complex patients. At the present time, early screening -with biomarker panels or a liver ultrasound, ideally with transient elastography- is reserved for high-risk patients (i.e., obese patients with T2DM or elevated plasma AST/ALT levels or evidence of steatosis at a random liver exam) until more accurate non-invasive methods are available. A liver biopsy should be considered on a case-by-case basis, to identify those at risk of NASH-cirrhosis, working in close collaboration with a hepatologist. Treatment should include a comprehensive approach with lifestyle modification and therapeutic agents tested in RCTs, such as vitamin E (in patients without diabetes) or pioglitazone for patients with or without diabetes. Pioglitazone, given its low-cost as a generic medication, long-standing track record of efficacy in NASH, and cardiometabolic benefits, is likely to be for NASH what metformin has become for the management of T2DM. However, proper patient selection and close monitoring is needed. In addition, a number of new pharmacological agents are being studied in phase II/III trials and future management will involve the use of combination therapy, as for other chronic metabolic conditions. In summary, endocrinologists need to be aware of the severe metabolic and liver-specific complications of NASH and establish early-on a long-term management plan. Screening will likely take place in the same way as for diabetic retinopathy or nephropathy. A better understanding of its natural history and pathogenesis of NASH, combined with improved diagnostic and treatment options, will likely place endocrinologists at the forefront of the management efforts to prevent end-stage liver disease in patients with NASH. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG.	2019	eng	Review	 	31310460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310460	diabetes
International journal of urology : official journal of the Japanese Urological Association	Risks of interstitial cystitis among patients with systemic lupus erythematosus: A population-based cohort study.	This is the first population-based cohort study showing a higher incidence of interstitial cystitis among patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. These findings support the concordance of interstitial cystitis with autoimmune diseases, and the temporal relationship to develop interstitial cystitis in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31311067	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311067	diabetes
The International journal of health planning and management	A review of the incidence and determinants of catastrophic health expenditure in Nigeria: Implications for universal health coverage.	There is a high incidence of CHE across various common health conditions in Nigeria. CHE was more among the poor, elderly, rural dwellers, private facility utilization, female gender, and noninsured among others. We recommend expansion of the National Health Insurance Scheme via informal social and financing networks platforms. Increased budgetary allocation to health and intersectoral collaboration will also play a significant role in CHE reduction.	2019	eng	Review	England	31311065	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311065	diabetes
Gynecologic and obstetric investigation	Are There Any Predictors of Endometrial Premalignancy/Malignancy within Endometrial Polyps in Infertile Patients?	When diffuse polypoid appearance of the endometrial cavity is detected in an infertile patient during office hysteroscopy, hysteroscopy-guided resection and endometrial curettage should be performed. The pathological specimen should be sent for histopathological evaluation to diagnose possible endometrial premalignancy/malignancy within polyps.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311015	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311015	diabetes
Nutrition (Burbank, Los Angeles County, Calif.)	Arachidonic acid-rich ARASCO oil has anti-inflammatory and antidiabetic actions against streptozotocin + high fat diet induced diabetes mellitus in Wistar rats.	These results suggest that ARASCO, a rich source of AA, can prevent HFD + STZ-induced diabetes in Wistar rats owing to its anti-inflammatory action. It remains to be seen whether ARASCO oil is useful in preventing or postponing the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus in humans.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310962	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310962	diabetes
Journal of affective disorders	Body mass index weight categories in adults who died by suicide: An observational study.	These findings add to our understanding of the relationship between suicide and weight. A higher prevalence of females as well as those with a history of cancer and any medical condition in underweight decedents was noteworthy and of potential clinical significance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310907	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310907	diabetes
Resuscitation	Contemporary Impacts of a Cancer Diagnosis on Survival Following In-Hospital Cardiac Arrest.	Patients with a history of cancer who sustain IHCA are less likely to receive post-arrest procedures and survive to hospital discharge. Given the expected rise in the rates of cancer survivorship, these findings highlight the need for broader application of potentially life-saving interventions to lower risk cancer patients who have sustained a cardiac arrest.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31310845	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310845	diabetes
Urology	Performance of a Natural Language Processing Method to Extract Stone Composition from the Electronic Health Record.	NLP extraction of kidney stone composition from large-scale EHRs is feasible with high precision, enabling high-throughput epidemiological studies of kidney stone disease. These tools will enable high fidelity kidney stone research from the EHR.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310771	diabetes
JCI insight	SREBP-regulated adipocyte lipogenesis is dependent on substrate availability and redox modulation of mTORC1.	The synthesis of lipid and sterol species through de novo lipogenesis (DNL) is regulated by two functionally overlapping but distinct transcription factors: the sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (SREBPs) and carbohydrate response element binding protein (ChREBP). ChREBP is considered to be the dominant regulator of DNL in adipose tissue (AT); however, the SREBPs are highly expressed and robustly regulated in adipocytes, suggesting that the model of AT DNL may be incomplete. Here we describe a new mouse model of inducible, adipocyte-specific overexpression of the insulin-induced gene 1 (Insig1), a negative regulator of SREBP transcriptional activity. Contrary to convention, Insig1 overexpression did block AT lipogenic gene expression. However, this was immediately met with a compensatory mechanism triggered by redox activation of mTORC1 to restore SREBP1 DNL gene expression. Thus, we demonstrate that SREBP1 activity sustains adipocyte lipogenesis, a conclusion that has been elusive due to the constitutive nature of current mouse models.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310592	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310592	diabetes
American journal of physiology. Endocrinology and metabolism	Tracking adiponectin biodistribution via fluorescence molecular tomography indicates increased vascular permeability after streptozotocin-induced diabetes.	Adiponectin, highly abundant in plasma, plays an important role in mediating important beneficial effects in diabetes, inflammation and cardiovascular disease. To act on target tissues, adiponectin must move from circulation to the interstitial space, suggesting that vascular permeability plays an important role in regulating adiponectin action. To test this hypothesis, fluorescently-labelled adiponectin was used to monitor its biodistribution in mice with streptozotocin-induced diabetes (STZD). Adiponectin was indeed found to have increased sequestration in the highly fenestrated liver and other tissues within 90 min in STZD mice. In addition, increased myocardial adiponectin was detected and confirmed using Computed Tomography (CT) co-registration. A higher adiponectin content in the STZD heart tissues was further confirmed by ex vivo fluorescence molecular tomography (FMT) imaging, immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis. In vitro mechanistic studies using an endothelial monolayer on inserts and 3D microvascular networks on microfluidic chips further confirmed that adiponectin flux was increased by high glucose. High glucose levels did not change adiponectin receptor levels. An examination of the tight junction (TJ) complex revealed a decrease in the TJ protein claudin (CLDN)-7 in high glucose-treated endothelial cells and the functional significance of this change was underscored by increased endothelium permeability upon siRNA-mediated knockdown of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310580	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310580	diabetes
Brazilian journal of cardiovascular surgery	The Predictive Effects of Clinical Hematological Changes on Saphenous Graft Patency after Coronary Artery Surgery.	Increased platelet distribution width is easily measurable and can be used as a simple and valuable marker in the prediction of saphenous vein graft failure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31310468	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310468	diabetes
Journal of cardiovascular electrophysiology	Association between prolonged P wave duration and left atrial scarring in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.	In the current series, prolonged PWD was found to be independently associated with LA scarring in PAF, even after adjustment for age, gender and LA diameter. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310407	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310407	diabetes
Journal of cardiovascular electrophysiology	Prognostic Significance of P-Wave Morphology in Patients with Coronary Artery Disease.	The P-wave morphology parameters predict independently SCD/SCA in patients with CAD. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310355	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310355	diabetes
Endocrinology	Associations between bone impact microindentation and clinical risk factors for fracture.	Impact microindentation (IMI) measures bone material strength index (BMSi) in vivo. However, clinical risk factors that affect BMSi are largely unknown. This study investigated associations between BMSi and clinical risk factors for fracture in men. BMSi was measured using the OsteoProbe in 357 men (ages 33-96yr) from the Geelong Osteoporosis Study. Risk factors included age, weight, height, body mass index (BMI), femoral neck BMD, parental hip fracture, prior fracture, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), secondary osteoporosis, smoking, alcohol consumption, sedentary lifestyle, medications, diseases and low serum vitamin D levels. BMSi was negatively associated with age (r = -0.131, p=0.014), weight (r = -0.109, p=0.040) and BMI (r = -0.083, p=0.001); no correlations were detected with BMD (r = 0.000, p=0.998) or height (r = 0.087, p=0.10). Mean BMSi values for men with and without prior fracture were 80.2±6.9 vs 82.8±6.1 (p=0.024); parental hip fracture 80.1±6.1 vs 82.8±6.9 (p=0.029); T2DM 80.3 ± 8.5 vs 82.9 ± 6.6 (p=0.059). BMSi did not differ in the presence vs absence of other risk factors. In multivariable models, mean(±SD) BMSi remained associated with prior fracture and parental hip fracture after adjusting for age and BMI: prior fracture (80.5±1.1 vs 82.8±0.4, p=0.044); parental fracture (79.9±1.2 vs 82.9±0.4, p=0.015). No other confounders were identified. We conclude that in men, BMSi discriminates prior fracture and parental hip fracture, which are both known to increase the risk for incident fracture. These findings suggest that IMI may be useful for identifying men who have an increased risk for fracture.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310275	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310275	diabetes
Psychiatric services (Washington, D.C.)	Clinical Care Quality Among Veterans Health Administration Patients With Mental Illness Following Medical Home Implementation.	Contrary to earlier reports of lower-quality care, patients with and without mental illness had similar preventive and chronic disease management care quality following medical home implementation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310189	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310189	diabetes
Environmental science & technology	Bisphenol A, chlorinated derivatives of Bisphenol A and occurrence of myocardial infarction in patients with type 2 diabetes: nested case-control studies in two European cohorts.	A positive association between Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure and coronary heart disease has been shown, but not in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). During the treatment of drinking water, chlorination leads to the formation of chlorinated derivatives of Bisphenol A (ClxBPA), that have higher estrogenic activity than BPA. No evidence exists for a relationship between exposure to ClxBPA and myocardial infarction in patients with T2D. The objective of this study was to evaluate the relationship between exposure to BPA, ClxBPA and the occurrence of myocardial infarction (MI) in patients with T2D. Two nested case-control studies in two independent European cohorts were performed. Each case with incident MI during follow-up was matched to one control on age, sex and personal cardiovascular history in the same cohort. Association between baseline urine concentrations of BPA and of ClxBPA and incident MI was determined. Exposure to BPA was 31% in the ESTHER cohort and 18% in the SURDIAGENE cohort. In a meta-analysis of the two studies, occurrence of MI was significantly associated with urine BPA detection: adjusted OR=1.97 (1.05; 3.70), p=0.04. Exposure to ClxBPA significantly differed in the SURDIAGENE and ESTHER studies: 24% and 8%, respectively (p=0.0003). It was very strongly associated with MI in the SURDIAGENE cohort with an adjusted odds ratio (OR) of 14.15 (95% confidence interval: 2.77 - 72.40) but this association was not replicated in the ESTHER study: adjusted OR: 0.17 (0.02 to 1.23). Whether these results may be explained by different water chlorination processes in France and Germany, resulting in different ClxBPA exposure levels, requires further investigation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310111	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310111	diabetes
ACS sensors	Dark-Field Microwells toward High-Throughput Direct miRNA Sensing with Gold Nanoparticles.	MicroRNA (miRNA) is a class of short RNA that is emerging as an ideal biomarker, as its expression level has been found to correlate with different types of diseases including diabetes and cancer. The detection of miRNA is highly beneficial for early diagnostics and disease monitoring. However, miRNA sensing remains difficult because of its small size and low expression levels. Common techniques such as quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310098	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310098	diabetes
Endocrinology, diabetes & metabolism case reports	Simultaneous onset of type 1 diabetes mellitus and silent thyroiditis under durvalumab treatment	Patients treated with anti-PD-L1 should be screened for the most common immune-related adverse events (irAEs).

Glucose levels and thyroid function should be monitored before and during the treatment.

Durvalumab is mainly associated with thyroid and endocrine pancreas dysfunction.

In the patients with significant autoimmune background, risk–benefit balance of antineoplastic immunotherapy should be accurately assessed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310083	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310083	diabetes
Clinical transplantation	Prednisone-Free Maintenance Immunosuppression in Obese Kidney Transplant Recipients.	Obese transplant recipients (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31310030	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310030	diabetes
The British journal of nutrition	Long-term vitamin D and high-dose n-3 fatty acids' supplementation improve markers of cardiometabolic risk in type 2 diabetic patients with CHD.	This study was performed to evaluate the effects of vitamin D and n-3 fatty acids' co-supplementation on markers of cardiometabolic risk in diabetic patients with CHD. This randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial was conducted among sixty-one vitamin D-deficient diabetic patients with CHD. At baseline, the range of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels in study participants was 6·3-19·9 ng/ml. Subjects were randomly assigned into two groups either taking 50 000 IU vitamin D supplements every 2 weeks plus 2× 1000 mg/d n-3 fatty acids from flaxseed oil (n 30) or placebo (n 31) for 6 months. Vitamin D and n-3 fatty acids' co-supplementation significantly reduced mean (P = 0·01) and maximum levels of left carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) (P = 0·004), and mean (P = 0·02) and maximum levels of right CIMT (P = 0·003) compared with the placebo. In addition, co-supplementation led to a significant reduction in fasting plasma glucose (β -0·40 mmol/l; 95 % CI -0·77, -0·03; P = 0·03), insulin (β -1·66 μIU/ml; 95 % CI -2·43, -0·89; P &lt; 0·001), insulin resistance (β -0·49; 95 % CI -0·72, -0·25; P &lt; 0·001) and LDL-cholesterol (β -0·21 mmol/l; 95 % CI -0·41, -0·01; P = 0·04), and a significant increase in insulin sensitivity (β +0·008; 95 % CI 0·004, 0·01; P = 0·001) and HDL-cholesterol (β +0·09 mmol/l; 95 % CI 0·01, 0·17; P = 0·02) compared with the placebo. Additionally, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (β -1·56 mg/l; 95 % CI -2·65, -0·48; P = 0·005) was reduced in the supplemented group compared with the placebo group. Overall, vitamin D and n-3 fatty acids' co-supplementation had beneficial effects on markers of cardiometabolic risk.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309919	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309919	diabetes
Critical reviews in food science and nutrition	Hypoglycemic effects of bioactive ingredients from medicine food homology and medicinal health food species used in China.	Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic progressive systemic disease caused by a metabolic disorder. In recent years, a large number of studies have shown that certain traditional Chinese medicines and their bioactive ingredients have obvious hypoglycemic effects. This literature review focuses on medicine food homology (MFH) and medicinal health food (MHF) species used in China with a hypoglycemic function and emphasizes the bioactive ingredients and their pharmacological effects. The bioactive ingredients of MFH and MHF have been divided into six categories: saponins, flavonoids, terpenoids, alkaloids, polysaccharides, and others; and their sources, models, efficacy, and mechanisms of action have been described. It is noteworthy that the mechanisms of the bioactive ingredients of MFH and MHF with hypoglycemic effects have been summarized as follows: a) insulin-mimetic effects and restoration of the damaged pancreas; b) effect on glucose metabolism; c) increased insulin sensitivity and improved insulin resistance; and d) regulation of intestinal flora. We conclude that this review provides useful data and information to support the further investigation and application of MFH and MHF to treat DM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309854	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309854	diabetes
Current vascular pharmacology	Postprandial Hypertriglyceridaemia Revisited in the Era of Non-Fasting Lipid Profile Testing: A 2019 Expert Panel Statement, Narrative Review	Postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia, defined as an increase in plasma triglyceride-containing lipoproteins following a fat meal, is a potential risk predictor of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and other chronic diseases. Several non-modifiable factors (genetics, age, sex and menopausal status) and lifestyle factors (diet, physical activity, smoking status, obesity, alcohol and medication use) may influence postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia. This narrative review considers the studies published over the last decade that evaluated postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia. Additionally, the genetic determinants of postprandial plasma triglyceride levels, the types of meals for studying postprandial triglyceride response, and underlying conditions (e.g. familial dyslipidaemias, diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver and chronic kidney disease) that are associated with postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia are reviewed; therapeutic aspects are also considered.	2019	eng	Review	United Arab Emirates	31309820	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309820	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Acute Bilateral Cataract in Patient with Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus.	Cataract represents one of the most frequent eye complications in type 1 DM and type 2 DM patients; contrarily, acute cataract in young diabetic patients occurs very rarely. Only few cases with acute bilateral cataract - all relatively shortly after the diagnosis of type 1 DM have been reported. It can affect visual acuity from slight visual impairment to complete blindness. Although usually associated with chronic hyperglycaemia, it may also occur on rapid restoration of euglycaemia.1 Early detection of diabetes and adequate glycaemic control, particularly in female adolescents, may prevent this debilitating complication of diabetes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309808	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	 Movement Disorder - A Rare Presentation of Diabetic Ketoacidosis.	Diabetic ketoacidosis is a common acute complication of Diabetes Mellitus. Diabetic ketoacidosis is known to cause impaired consciousness due to the osmolar and acid base imbalance which in turn cause central nervous system involvement. Here we report a rare presentation of Diabetic ketoacidosis with movement disorder in form of hemichorea and facial tics. The movement disorder improved with treatment of ketosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309807	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309807	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning: The Future of Medicine and Medical Practice.	Artificial Intelligence (AI) and access to "Big Data" together with the evolving techniques in biotechnology will change the medical practice a big way. Many diseases such as type II diabetes will no longer be considered as a single disease. Many familiar cancers such as cancer of liver or pancreas will have hundreds of subtypes whose management will be very different. The way we think about diseases will change. It will no longer be possible for clinicians to make a diagnosis, remember the names of diseases, the names of drugs or management protocols without the help of computers. As computer intelligence becomes more important than human intelligence in deciding diagnosis and treatment there will be a paradigm in the role of doctors. Internet, computers and social media will become more important than individuals in decision making. As a result, medicine will go more and more egalitarian ("wiki") with increasing community participation in health decision making and management. A socialistic pattern will evolve over time globally as an adaptive reaction to the pressures put by artificial intelligence. This is because the individual differences in knowledge or intellect between human beings will become less apparent compared to the super powers of artificial intelligence. Qualities which are unique for humans such as compassion, empathy and emotional care will decide the professional success of future physicians even more than today. Today we are using artificial intelligence in diagnosis and prediction to help clinicians. Clinical algorithms and human experience cannot be replaced by machines. It will take many years to completely merge or replace humans with machines. However, we need to modify our medical education system in order to prepare the medical community and sensitize the society well in advance for a smooth transition.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309802	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309802	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	 Targeting Glycemic Level in Gestational Diabetes Mellitus to that of Normal Pregnancy would result in a better Maternal-Fetal Outcome.	Women with a history of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM) are at increased risk of future diabetes and related Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) as are their offspring. "Transgenerational transmission occurs". Independent of genetic risk, offspring of hyperglycaemic pregnancies are at increased risk of early onset type 2 diabetes mellitus (Type 2 DM) and obesity. Differences exist in offspring risk of diabetes and obesity based on time and type of diabetes exposure in utero. There is a risk gradient, wherein type 2 DM exposure confers greater risk and reduces time to development of type 2 DM in the offspring compared with exposure to GDM and no diabetes exposure. These data suggest, glucose dose dependence in risk transmission. Given that the age of onset of prediabetes and type 2 DM is declining many reproductive age women may have undiagnosed diabetes or dysglycaemia when they become pregnant. This has great public health significance and it has become imperative that all pregnant women should be screened for hyperglycemia even if they have no symptoms. Ministry of Health, Government of India has developed the national guidelines for testing, diagnosis and management of hyperglycemia in pregnancy. These guidelines recommend early testing at booking, to be repeated again between 24-28 weeks if negative at first testing. The guideline also recommends that GDM can be diagnosed if the 2 hr PG is ≥140mg/dl after 75 gm of oral glucose administration without regard to the time of the last meal (i.e., fasting or non-fasting). This approach has also been endorsed by International Diabetes Federation (IDF), World Health Organization (WHO) and International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) for resource constrained settings.The aim should be to target new born baby's birth weight, appropriate for gestational age (2.5 to 3.5 kg) to prevent the offspring developing NCD in the future. For this to happen early diagnosis and tight maternal glucose control during pregnancy similar to glycaemic level in the normal pregnancy, (FPG between 80 and 90 mg, 2 hr. post prandial between 110 and 120 mg) is necessary.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309801	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309801	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	 Relationship between the Use of Aluminium Utensils for Cooking Meals and Chronic Aluminum Toxicity in Patients on Maintenance Hemodialysis: A Case Control Study.	Use of aluminum utensils for cooking meals is associated with CAT. Larger studies are required to confirm these findings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309799	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309799	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	A Study on the Association of Psoriasis with Metabolic Disorders.	The blood pressure, sr. triglycerides, sr. high density lipids, fasting blood sugar were significant in cases as compared to controls satisfying the criteria of Adult Panel Treatment III (ATP III) of Metabolic Disorders.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309797	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309797	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Outcome in Survivors of Middle Cerebral Artery Territory Ischemic Stroke: Can it be predicted?	Our findings show that disability assessment late in the first week after onset of stroke using NIHSS accurately forecast outcome at one month after onset of stroke. The MMSE too is not expected to change at 1 month. Those with aphasia are expected to have greater disability. Based on or study we recommend that stroke patients should be assessed with NIHSS and MMSE before discharge, to explain the prognosis of the patient. Also more intense counselling on controlling blood pressure and diabetes as well as abstinence from smoking should be undertaken routinely.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309796	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309796	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	IMPACT India: Insights for Insulin Therapy in Routine Clinical Practice.	Indian physicians exercise logic in the choice of insulin regimens. Preference is based on patient characteristics including glucophenotype, dietary patterns, psychosocial needs, clinical situations, and comorbid conditions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309793	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309793	diabetes
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	 Study of Impact of Glycemic Status (HbA1c) on Platelet Activity measured by Mean Platelet Volume & Vascular Complications in Diabetics.	Our results showed significantly higher MPV in diabetic patients with higher HbA1C (poor glycemic control). This indicates that elevated MPV could be either the cause for or due to the effect of the vascular complications. Hence, platelets may play a role and MPV can be used as a simple parameter to assess the vascular events in diabetes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309791	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309791	diabetes
Zhejiang da xue xue bao. Yi xue ban = Journal of Zhejiang University. Medical sciences	[A novel mutation W257R in 	Maturity onset diabetes of the young (MODY) is a monogenic autosomal dominant inherited disease. Its clinical manifestations are asymptomatic with slightly elevated fasting blood glucose and few complications. This paper reports a novel mutation W257R in glucokinase (	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31309759	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309759	diabetes
European journal of heart failure	The Dapagliflozin And Prevention of Adverse-outcomes in Heart Failure (DAPA-HF) trial: baseline characteristics.	ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03036124.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309699	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309699	diabetes
Health economics	Payment models in primary health care: A driver of the quantity and quality of medical laboratory utilization.	Physician payment models' incentives regarding many aspects of primary health care are not well understood. We focus on the case of medical laboratory utilization and examine how physicians' laboratory test ordering patterns change following a switch to a blended capitation payment model from one with fee for service enhanced with pay for performance. Also, within blended capitation, we examine differences between traditional staffing and interdisciplinary teams. Using a propensity score weighted fixed-effects specification to address selection, it is estimated that the switch to capitation leads to a short-run average of 3% fewer laboratory requisitions per patient. Patients' laboratory utilization also becomes more concentrated with the rostering physician. More importantly, using diabetes-related laboratory tests as a case study, after joining the blended model, physicians order 3% fewer inappropriate/redundant tests, and the addition of an interdisciplinary care team makes the reduction about 9%. Advances in both continuity and quality seem to be associated with blended capitation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309648	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309648	diabetes
Diabetic medicine : a journal of the British Diabetic Association	Using health economics to count the cost of diabetes.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	England	31309610	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309610	diabetes
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Diabetes is Associated with Increased Risk of Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Cirrhosis Patients with Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.	Diabetes increases the risk of liver disease progression and cirrhosis development in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The association between diabetes and the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in NASH cirrhosis patients is not well quantified. All patients with the diagnosis of NASH cirrhosis seen at Mayo Clinic Rochester between January 2006 and December 2015 were identified. All adult liver transplant registrants with NASH between 2004 and 2017 were identified using the UNOS/OPTN registry for external validation. Cox proportional hazard analysis was performed to investigate the association between diabetes and HCC risk. Among 354 Mayo Clinic patients with NASH cirrhosis, 253 (71%) had diabetes and 145 (41%) were male. Mean age at cirrhosis evaluation was 62. During a median follow up of 47 months, 30 patients developed HCC. Diabetes was associated with an increased risk of developing HCC in univariate (hazard ratio [HR] = 3.6, 95% confidence interval [CI] =1.1-11.9, P=0.04) and multivariable analysis (HR = 4.2, 95% CI =1.2-14.2, P=0.02). In addition, age (per decade: HR = 1.8, 95% CI =1.2-2.6, P<0.01) and low serum albumin (HR = 2.1, 95% CI =1.5-2.9, P<0.01) were significantly associated with an increased risk of developing HCC in multivariable analysis. Other metabolic risk factors including BMI, hyperlipidemia and hypertension were not associated with HCC risk. Among UNOS NASH registrants (N=6,630), 58% had diabetes. Diabetes was associated with an increased risk of developing HCC in univariate (HR = 1.4, 95% CI =1.1-1.8, P<0.01) and multivariable (HR = 1.3, 95% CI =1.0-1.7, P=0.03) analysis. In conclusion, diabetes is associated with an increased risk of HCC in patients with NASH cirrhosis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309602	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309602	diabetes
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Non-Alcoholic steatohepatitis is associated with liver-related outcomes and all-cause mortality in chronic hepatitis B.	In our large combined tertiary centre cohort, patients with concomitant NASH and CHB had more AF and shorter time to development of liver-related outcomes or death, compared to patients with CHB alone. Among patients with AF, superimposed NASH predicted poorer clinical outcomes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309589	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309589	diabetes
FEBS letters	Egr-1 transcriptionally activates protein phosphatase PTP1B to facilitate hyperinsulinemia-induced insulin resistance in the liver in type 2 diabetes.	During the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), hyperinsulinemia is the earliest symptom. It is believed that long-term high insulin stimulation might facilitate insulin resistance in the liver, but the underlying mechanism remains unknown. Herein, we report that hyperinsulinemia could induce persistent early growth response gene-1 (Egr-1) activation in hepatocytes, which provides negative feedback inhibition of insulin sensitivity by inducing the expression of protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B (PTP1B). Deletion of Egr-1 in the liver remarkably decreases glucose production, thus improving systemic glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. Mechanistic analysis indicates that Egr-1 inhibits insulin receptor (InsR) phosphorylation by directly activating PTP1B transcription in the liver. Our results reveal the molecular mechanism by which hyperinsulinemia accelerates insulin resistance in hepatocytes during the progression of T2DM. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309546	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309546	diabetes
Clinical and experimental immunology	Islet-Immune Interactions in Type 1 Diabetes: The Nexus of Beta Cell Destruction.	Recent studies in Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) support an emerging model of disease pathogenesis that involves intrinsic β-cell fragility combined with defects in both innate and adaptive immune cell regulation. This combination of defects induces systematic changes leading to organ-level atrophy and dysfunction of both the endocrine and exocrine portions of the pancreas, ultimately culminating in insulin deficiency and β-cell destruction. In this review, we discuss the animal model data and human tissue studies that have informed our current understanding of the cross-talk that occurs between β-cells, the resident stroma, and immune cells that potentiate T1D. Specifically, we will review the cellular and molecular signatures emerging from studies on tissues derived from organ procurement programs, focusing on in situ defects occurring within the T1D islet microenvironment, many of which are not yet detectable by standard peripheral blood biomarkers. In addition to improved access to organ donor tissues, various methodological advances, including immune receptor repertoire sequencing and single-cell molecular profiling, are poised to improve our understanding of antigen-specific autoimmunity during disease development. Collectively, the knowledge gains from these studies at the islet-immune interface are enhancing our understanding of T1D heterogeneity, likely to be an essential component for instructing future efforts to develop targeted interventions to restore immune tolerance and preserve β-cell mass and function. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Review	England	31309537	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309537	diabetes
Clinical genetics	Bioinformatic detection of copy number variation in HNF4A causing maturity onset diabetes of the young.	 	2019	eng	Letter	Denmark	31309534	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309534	diabetes
Journal of nuclear cardiology : official publication of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology	Severe myocardial ischemia in a patient with diabetes mellitus and left bundle branch block.	We present the case of a 69-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus, left bundle branch block, and obesity who develops cardiogenic shock after undergoing myocardial perfusion imaging and diagnostic left heart catheterization, but prior to coronary revascularization. This case highlights the risk of cardiac decompensation awaiting surgery in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease. It also emphasizes the subtleties involved in imaging patients with diabetes mellitus and left bundle branch block, as well as the risk of developing complete heart block in the setting of ischemia with underlying conduction disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309462	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309462	diabetes
Biological trace element research	Effect of a Prolonged Dietary Iron Intake on the Gene Expression and Activity of the Testicular Antioxidant Defense System in Rats.	Despite the fact that iron represents a crucial element for the catalysis of many metabolic reactions, its accumulation in the cell leads to the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), provoking pathological conditions such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, and fertility. Thus, ROS are neutralized by the enzymatic antioxidant system for the purpose of protecting cells against any damage. Iron is a potential risk factor for male fertility. However, the mechanism of action of iron on the testicular antioxidant system at the gene and protein levels is not fully understood. Thus, the purpose of the current research was to ensure a better understanding of how the long-term iron treatment influences both gene expression and enzyme activities of the testicular antioxidant system in rat testis. The data of our study showed that a significant dose-dependent increase occurred in the iron level in rat testis. A reduction occurred in reduced glutathione (GSH) levels, which represent a marker of oxidative stress, along with long-term iron overload. The expression and activity of glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6pd), glutathione reductase (Gr), glutathione peroxidase (Gpx), and glutathione S-transferases (Gst) were significantly affected by the presence of iron. The findings of the current research demonstrate that the long-term toxic dietary iron overload influences the gene expression and enzyme activity of the testicular antioxidant defense system, but the actual effect occurs at the protein level. This may modify the sperm function and dysfunction of the male reproductive system.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309445	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309445	diabetes
Journal of behavioral medicine	Mediators and moderators of change in mindfulness-based stress reduction for painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy.	Painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy (PDPN) is a chronic pain condition with modest response to pharmacotherapy. Participation in mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) leads to improvements in pain-related outcomes but the mechanisms of change are unknown. The present study examined the mediators and moderators of change in 62 patients with PDPN who participated in a randomized controlled trial comparing MBSR to waitlist. Changes in mindfulness and pain catastrophizing were tested simultaneously as mediators. Increased mindfulness mediated the association between participation in MBSR and improved pain severity, pain interference, and the physical component of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 3 months later. The mediation effect of pain catastrophizing was not significant. Linear moderated trends were also found. Post-hoc moderated mediation analyses suggested that MBSR patients with longer histories of diabetes might increase their mindfulness levels more, which in turn leads to improved pain severity and physical HRQoL. These results allow for a deeper understanding of pathways by which MBSR benefits patients with PDPN.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309355	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309355	diabetes
Acta diabetologica	Homozygosity mapping and direct sequencing identify a novel pathogenic variant in the CISD2 gene in an Iranian Wolfram syndrome family.	This is the first study that elucidates the role of the CISD2 gene among Iranian WS families with a novel disease-causing missense variant. Next-generation sequencing could unravel disease-causing genes in remained families to expand genetic heterogeneity of WS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309279	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309279	diabetes
Diabetologia	Outcomes of people with severe hypoglycaemia requiring prehospital emergency medical services management: a prospective study.	Following an episode of severe hypoglycaemia managed by EMS, one-fifth of participants required hospital admission, more likely in those with advancing age, increasing comorbidities and injury and one-tenth required EMS again for severe hypoglycaemia in a 3 month period, more likely in those with a greater number of antecedent episodes and lower HbA	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309262	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309262	diabetes
Diabetologia	Antioxidants protect against diabetes by improving glucose homeostasis in mouse models of inducible insulin resistance and obesity.	We conclude that fat mass reduction through insulin resistance in adipocytes is not reversible. Furthermore, it seems unlikely that adipocytes undergo apoptosis during the process of extreme lipolysis, as a consequence of insulin resistance. Antioxidants have a beneficial health effect not only during the acute phase of diabetes development, but also in a temporary fashion once chronic obesity and diabetes have been established.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309261	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309261	diabetes
BioMed research international	Insulin Resistance and Cardiovascular Risks in Different Groups of Hemodialysis Patients: A Multicenter Study.	The level of IR and prevalence of CVD risks were high in hemodialysis patients. IR was independently associated with CVD risks.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309101	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309101	diabetes
Avicenna journal of phytomedicine	Administration of troxerutin improves testicular function and structure in type-1 diabetic adult rats by reduction of apoptosis.	Taken together, troxerutin, comparable to insulin, effectively improved DM-induced testicular dysfunction and sperm parameters in diabetic rats and these effects might be mediated through troxerutin's anti-apoptotic effects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31309075	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309075	diabetes
Avicenna journal of phytomedicine	Effect of crocin on biochemical parameters, oxidative/antioxidative profiles, sperm characteristics and testicular histopathology in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Administration of crocin in the present study, ameliorated blood glucose, lipid abnormalities, oxidative stress, sperm characteristics and testis damage in STZ-diabetic rats.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31309073	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309073	diabetes
Avicenna journal of phytomedicine	The effect of saffron (	This report shows that daily supplementation with 100 mg 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31309071	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309071	diabetes
World journal of plastic surgery	Frequency and Predictors of 30-Day Surgical Site Complications in Autologous Breast Reconstruction Surgery.	The rate of 30-day SSC in autologous breast reconstruction was noticeable. The strongest independent risk factor for SSC in autologous breast reconstruction was BMI>35. The type of autologous breast reconstruction was not a predictive risk factor for SSC. Plastic surgeons should inform patients about their risk for SSC and optimizing these risk factors to minimize the rate of surgical site complications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31309057	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309057	diabetes
Cureus	Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of 4556 Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Patients at a Tertiary Care Hospital in Southern Punjab.	Objective The objective of this study was to analyze the demographic profile of type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) patients presenting to a tertiary care hospital of Southern Punjab, Pakistan. Methods This descriptive study was carried out at the Diabetic Outdoor Nishtar Hospital Multan from 2013 to 2018 after taking approval from the Institutional Ethical Review Committee. All patients were evaluated in detail after obtaining informed consent. Results Data of 4,556 patients with type 2 DM were analyzed. There were 2549 (55.9%) female and 2007 (44.1%) male participants in our study. The mean age of our study population was 47.72 years with a standard deviation (SD) of 10.82 years. Seventy-nine percent of the patients belonged to urban areas. Symptoms of polyuria, polydipsia, and polyphagia were found in 72%, 67%, and 59% of patients, respectively. Hypertension was found in 3391 (74%) patients. The mean waist circumference (WC) was 102.85 cm with an SD of 18.14 cm. The mean waist to hip ratio (WHR) was 1.02 with an SD of 0.102. The mean body mass index (BMI) was 26.50 with an SD of 5.57 kg/m	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309017	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309017	diabetes
Cureus	Outcome of Percutaneous Release for Trigger Digits in Diabetic and Non-diabetic Patients.	Introduction Trigger finger (TF) is a common cause of hand pain, swelling, and limited motion. It is common in women and in the thumb. Diabetes mellitus (DM) increases the risk of TF. Individuals with DM who develop TF are resistant to both medical and surgical interventions. The aim of this study is to compare the outcomes of percutaneous trigger release in diabetic and nondiabetic patients. Methods Fifty diabetic and 50 non-diabetic patients with a clinical diagnosis of TF were included after informed consent. Percutaneous trigger release was performed in all of them. Follow-ups for pain and/or neurovascular complications were taken after one week, one month, and six months. Data were entered and analyzed using SPSS v. 22 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, US). Results In the diabetic group, 86% of patients had TF of grade III or above and in the non-diabetic group, 76% of patients had TF of grade III or above. At the one-week follow-up, 79.2% diabetic patients still had mild to severe pain and 60.4% non-diabetic patients had mild to severe pain. By one month, 40% patients in the diabetic group still reported mild to moderate pain, however, all patients in the non-diabetic group reported no pain. By six months, nine (20%) diabetic patients reported mild pain. There was no incidence of infection or neurovascular damage at any follow-up in the non-diabetic group, and in the diabetic group, 4.2% of patients had an infection on the one-week follow-up. Conclusion Percutaneous trigger finger release is a safe, reliable, time-saving, and cost-effective procedure for the management of trigger finger in both diabetic and non-diabetic patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309010	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309010	diabetes
Cureus	An Unexpected Complication Due to Metformin Use After Femur Fracture Operation: Metabolic Acidosis Without Lactic Acidosis.	A 74-year- old male, who was known to have hypertension, chronic obstructive lung disease, and benign prostate hyperplasia, was evaluated preoperatively in our clinic for a femur fracture. In addition, it was found that the patient was using 1000 mg of metformin per oral due to type 2 diabetes. At the preoperative cardiology evaluation, the ejection fraction was 60% with normal systolic ventricular function. Routine laboratory tests were normal. Metformin was held 24 hours before surgery. Spinal anesthesia was applied with 10 mg bupivacaine and 20 mcg fentanyl. Total blood loss at surgery was 150 cc. After an uneventful surgery, the patient was observed at the surgical postanesthesia care unit. Cardiac and respiratory physical examinations seemed normal but the patient had minimal acidosis and hypoxia in the arterial blood gas analysis. Twelve hours after the operation, compensated high anion gap ( 30 mEq/l) metabolic acidosis emerged, but lactate was normal. The patient's urea and creatinine levels were normal in the control blood tests, and the patient's urine output was above 0.5 ml/kg. Within this period, glucose levels were around 80-140 mg/dl. To overcome metabolic acidosis, bolus intravenous 8.4 % bicarbonate solution was administered. Bicarbonate infusion was started on the continuation of metabolic acidosis and base loss despite the bolus bicarbonate treatment. Since there was no other reason for the metabolic acidosis, metformin usage was considered to cause metabolic acidosis. During this treatment period, despite high anion gap acidosis, there was no lactate elevation. The patient had normal laboratory and hemodynamic values and was discharged from the intensive care unit at postoperative Day 3.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31309009	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309009	diabetes
Therapeutic advances in endocrinology and metabolism	Differential left ventricular and left atrial remodelling in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction patients with and without diabetes.	NCT03050593.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308926	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308926	diabetes
Oxidative medicine and cellular longevity	The Effects of Folic Acid Administration on Cardiac Oxidative Stress and Cardiovascular Biomarkers in Diabetic Rats.	The aim of this study was to examine the effects of folic acid administration on the antioxidant enzyme (superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT)) activities, lactate and malate dehydrogenase (LDH and MDH) activities, and certain LDH and MDH isoform distribution in the cardiac tissue of diabetic Wistar male rats. Diabetes mellitus (DM) was induced by streptozotocin (STZ). There were five groups: C1-control (physiological saline 1 ml/kg, i.p. one day), C2-control with daily physiological saline treatment (1 ml/kg, i.p. 28 days), DM-diabetes mellitus (STZ 100 mg/kg in physiological saline, i.p. one day), FA-folic acid (5 mg/kg in physiological saline, i.p. 28 days), and DM+FA-diabetes mellitus and folic acid group (STZ 100 mg/kg in physiological saline, i.p. one day, and folic acid 5 mg/kg in physiological saline, i.p. 28 days). After four weeks, animal hearts were isolated for measurement of enzyme activities, as well as for histomorphometry analyses. An elevated glucose level and a decreased insulin level were obtained in the DM group. SOD, CAT, and MDH activities were elevated in the DM group, while there was no difference in LDH activity among the groups. In all tested groups, four LDH and three MDH isoforms were detected in the heart tissue, but with differences in their relative activities among the groups. Left ventricular cardiomyocyte transversal diameters were significantly smaller in both diabetic groups. Folic acid treatment of diabetic rats induced a reduced glucose level and reduced CAT, SOD, and MDH activities and alleviated the decrease in cardiomyocyte diameters. In conclusion, increased activities of antioxidant enzymes and MDH may be the consequence of oxidative stress caused by DM. Administration of the folic acid has a protective effect since it leads to reduction in glycemia and activities of the certain examined enzymes in the rats with experimentally induced DM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308875	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308875	diabetes
Journal of geriatric cardiology : JGC	Calcium channel blocker monotherapy versus combination with renin-angiotensin system inhibitors on the development of new-onset diabetes mellitus in hypertensive Korean patients.	The use of RASI in addition to CCB showed comparable incidences of NODM and MACE compared to CCB monotherapy in non-diabetic hypertensive Korean patients during four-year follow-up period. However, large-scaled randomized controlled clinical trials will be required for a more definitive conclusion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31308836	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308836	diabetes
Clinical medicine insights. Endocrinology and diabetes	Differences of FreeStyle Libre Flash Glucose Monitoring System and Finger Pricks on Clinical Characteristics and Glucose Monitoring Satisfactions in Type 1 Diabetes Using Insulin Pump.	The frequency of hypoglycemia, HbA1c level, capillary glucose, daily carbohydrates intake decreased, while the total daily insulin dose, daily bolus insulin and total GMS score increased with the use of FGM scanning for 12 weeks.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308786	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308786	diabetes
Clinical optometry	A comparative study of the quality of non-stimulated and stimulated tears in normal eye male subjects using the tear ferning test.	This study found no significant difference in the tear ferning patterns obtained from non-stimulated and stimulated tears, or between the tear ferning patterns in the tears collected from the right and left eyes before and after stimulating tears. It seems that there were no changes in the chemical composition of tears before and after stimulation, possibly due to the steady concentration of electrolytes and lipids within the tear film for both non-stimulated and stimulated tears.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308779	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308779	diabetes
Diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity : targets and therapy	Metabolic syndrome is associated with peripheral endothelial dysfunction amongst men.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308718	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308718	diabetes
Diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity : targets and therapy	Liraglutide ameliorates nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in diabetic mice via the IRS2/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308717	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308717	diabetes
Diabetes, metabolic syndrome and obesity : targets and therapy	SGLT-2 inhibitors as promising therapeutics for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: pathophysiology, clinical outcomes, and future directions.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is increasingly recognized as a major expanding national and international health problem. Despite numerous investigations using a variety of therapeutic agents, the positive result on any single medication has not been established enough to gain widespread approval. This is in part related to concerns regarding side effects of agents, but is also related to the complex etiology of NAFLD. An often discussed question has been whether insulin resistance that is frequently present in those with NAFLD is a cause of NAFLD or is merely associated with the condition. Nevertheless, it is clear that a very high proportion of patients with NAFLD are obese, have elements of metabolic syndrome, or have type 2 diabetes (T2DM). Also, much progress has been made toward a better understanding of the pathophysiology of NAFLD. Life-style interventions resulting in weight loss remain the foundation for the prevention and treatment of NAFLD. In addition, agents such as Vitamin E and pioglitazone as well as other glycemia-lowering agents including Glucagon Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists and Sodium Glucose Contransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT-2i(s)) exhibit positive effects on the clinical course of NAFLD. This narrative review summarizes the current understanding of the diagnosis, epidemiology, and pathophysiology of NAFLD and specifically focuses on the efficacy of SGLT2i(s) as a potentially promising group of agents for the management of patients with NAFLD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308716	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308716	diabetes
Vascular health and risk management	The burden of critical limb ischemia: a review of recent literature.	Peripheral arterial disease is a chronic vascular disease characterized by impaired circulation to the lower extremities. Its most severe stage, known as critical limb ischemia (CLI), puts patients at an increased risk of cardiovascular events, amputation, and death. The objective of this literature review is to describe the burden of disease across a comprehensive set of domains-epidemiologic, clinical, humanistic, and economic-focusing on key studies published in the last decade. CLI prevalence in the United States is estimated to be approximately 2 million and is likely to rise in the coming years given trends in important risk factors such as age, diabetes, and smoking. Hospitalization for CLI patients is common and up to 60% are readmitted within 6 months. Amputation rates are unacceptably high with a disproportionate risk for certain demographic and socioeconomic groups. In addition to limb loss, CLI patients also have reduced life expectancy with mortality typically exceeding 50% by 5 years. Given the poor clinical prognosis, it is unsurprising that the quality of life burden associated with CLI is significant. Studies assessing quality of life in CLI patients have used a variety of generic and disease-specific measures and all document a substantial impact of the disease on the patient's physical, social, and emotional health status compared to population norms. Finally, the poor clinical outcomes and increased medical resource use lead to a considerable economic burden for national health care systems. However, published cost studies are not comprehensive and, therefore, likely underestimate the true economic impact of CLI. Our summary documents a sobering assessment of CLI burden-a poor clinical prognosis translating into diminished quality of life and high costs for millions of patients. Continued prevention efforts and improved treatment strategies are the key to ameliorating the substantial morbidity and mortality associated with this disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308682	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308682	diabetes
International journal of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease	Increased risk of peripheral arterial occlusive diseases in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a nationwide study in Taiwan.	COPD patients have a higher incidence and an independently higher risk of PAOD than patients without COPD. The risk of PAOD is markedly elevated in COPD patients with more comorbidities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308650	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308650	diabetes
Patient preference and adherence	Using the Medication Adherence Reasons Scale (MAR-Scale) to identify the reasons for non-adherence across multiple disease conditions.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308635	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308635	diabetes
Clinical ophthalmology (Auckland, N.Z.)	Safety of anti-VEGF treatments in a diabetic rat model and retinal cell culture.	Anti-VEGF treatment may be potentially detrimental to the retina by decreasing cellular metabolic activity and increasing cytotoxicity of retinal cells. The results provide a cautionary note to monitor both the retina and optic nerve status in patients undergoing frequent injections.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308619	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308619	diabetes
Ethnicity & disease	Development of a Natural Language Processing Algorithm to Identify and Evaluate Transgender Patients in Electronic Health Record Systems.	Our novel algorithm correctly identified transgender patients and provided important insights into health care utilization among this marginalized population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308617	diabetes
Ethnicity & disease	Achieving Health Equity with e-Healthystrides©: Patient Perspectives of a Consumer Health Information Technology Application.	e-Healthystrides© is effective for self-management behavior change. Participants showed the best success with healthy coping, healthy eating, and monitoring behaviors. They felt empowered by access to health information and valued interaction with coaches and peers. Our findings support strong relational/social network strategy with a role for coaches as guides (apomediaries) who facilitate skill acquisition using technology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308611	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308611	diabetes
Ethnicity & disease	Applying a Health Equity Lens to Evaluate and Inform Policy.	Health disparities have persisted despite decades of efforts to eliminate them at the national, regional, state and local levels. Policies have been a driving force in creating and exacerbating health disparities, but they can also play a major role in eliminating disparities. Research evidence and input from affected community-level stakeholders are critical components of evidence-based health policy that will advance health equity. The Transdisciplinary Collaborative Center (TCC) for Health Disparities Research at Morehouse School of Medicine consists of five subprojects focused on studying and informing health equity policy related to maternal-child health, mental health, health information technology, diabetes, and leadership/workforce development. This article describes a "health equity lens" as defined, operationalized and applied by the TCC to inform health policy development, implementation, and analysis. Prioritizing health equity in laws and organizational policies provides an upstream foundation for ensuring that the laws are implemented at the midstream and downstream levels to advance health equity.	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31308601	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308601	diabetes
JPMA. The Journal of the Pakistan Medical Association	Population preferences for sources that offers information about dietary fibres health effects - an international cross-sectional survey.	A proper and friendly way to transmit information about the importance of dietary fibre consumption is critical in promoting healthy diet patterns and in preventing non-transmissible diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Pakistan	31308568	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308568	diabetes
Scientific reports	Glycaemic Control for People with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus in Bangladesh - An urgent need for optimization of management plan.	The objective of this study was to identify the determinants of glycaemic control among people with type 2 diabetes mellitus in Bangladesh. A cross-sectional study was carried out during March to September 2017, and 1253 adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were recruited from six hospitals. Data were collected from patients via face-to-face interview, and their medical records were reviewed. Multiple logistic regression analysis was performed. Among the participants, 53.2% were male. Mean (±SD) age was 54.1 (±12.1) years and mean (±SD) duration of diabetes was 9.9 (±7.2) years. About 82% participants had inadequate glycaemic control (HbA1c ≥ 7%) and 54.7% had very poor control (HbA1c ≥ 9%). Low education level, rural residence, unhealthy eating habits, insulin use, infrequent follow up check-ups and history of coronary artery diseases found associated with inadequate and very poor controls. Being female and smokeless tobacco consumer appeared to be associated with inadequate control however cognitive impairment was associated with very poor control only. Prevalence of inadequate glycaemic level was very high in Bangladesh. Having understood relatable lifestyle modification factors, demographics and co-morbidities among people with type 2 diabetes, health care providers in conjunction with patients should work together to address the glycaemic control.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308457	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308457	diabetes
Scientific reports	Effect of Saxagliptin on Endothelial Function in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes: A Prospective Multicenter Study.	The dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor saxagliptin is a widely used antihyperglycemic agent in patients with type 2 diabetes. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of saxagliptin on endothelial function in patients with type 2 diabetes. This was a prospective, multicenter, interventional study. A total of 34 patients with type 2 diabetes were enrolled at four university hospitals in Japan. Treatment of patients was initially started with saxagliptin at a dose of 5 mg daily. Assessment of endothelial function assessed by flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) and measurement of stromal cell-derived factor-1α (SDF-1α) were conducted at baseline and at 3 months after treatment with saxagliptin. A total of 31 patients with type 2 diabetes were included in the analysis. Saxagliptin significantly increased FMD from 3.1 ± 3.1% to 4.2 ± 2.4% (P = 0.032) and significantly decreased total cholesterol from 190 ± 24 mg/dL to 181 ± 25 mg/dL (P = 0.002), glucose from 160 ± 53 mg/dL to 133 ± 25 mg/dL (P < 0.001), HbA1c from 7.5 ± 0.6% to 7.0 ± 0.6% (P < 0.001), urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio from 63.8 ± 134.2 mg/g to 40.9 ± 83.0 mg/g (P = 0.043), and total SDF-1α from 2108 ± 243 pg/mL to 1284 ± 345 pg/mL (P < 0.001). These findings suggest that saxagliptin is effective for improving endothelial function.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308448	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308448	diabetes
Scientific reports	Poorly controlled diabetes during pregnancy and lactation activates the Foxo1 pathway and causes glucose intolerance in adult offspring.	Exposure to maternal diabetes during pregnancy results in diabetes in offspring, but its underlying mechanisms are unclear. Here, we investigated the phenotype and molecular defects of the offspring of poorly controlled diabetic female mice generated by streptozotocin (STZ) administration. Offspring was exposed to maternal diabetes during pregnancy and lactation. The body weight of STZ offspring was lower than that of control offspring at birth and in adulthood, and glucose tolerance was impaired in adult STZ offspring. Interestingly, the phenotype was more pronounced in male offspring. We next investigated the morphology of islets and expression of β cell-related genes, but no significant changes were observed. However, transcriptome analysis of the liver revealed activation of the fork head box protein O1 (Foxo1) pathway in STZ male offspring. Notably, two key gluconeogenesis enzyme genes, glucose 6 phosphatase catalytic subunit (G6pc) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (Pck1), were upregulated. Consistent with this finding, phosphorylation of Foxo1 was decreased in the liver of STZ male offspring. These changes were not obvious in female offspring. The activation of Foxo1 and gluconeogenesis in the liver may have contributed to the impaired glucose tolerance of STZ male offspring.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308441	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308441	diabetes
Scientific reports	Oral contraceptive use increases risk of inflammatory and coagulatory disorders in women with Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome: An observational study.	Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is a multispectral disorder requiring lifelong management. Its pathophysiology is still being explored which makes its treatment options restrained. Present study explores impact of oral contraceptive mode of treatment on metabolic, hormonal, inflammation and coagulation profile of PCOS women. 50 subjects diagnosed with Rotterdam criteria receiving no drug treatment served as controls whereas 50 subjects receiving only OCPs (Ethinyl estradiol 0.03 mg, Levonorgestrel 0.15 mg) as a mode of treatment at least for six-months served as cases. Ferriman-Gallwey score and hormonal profile improved on OCP treatment. However, parameters like weight, Body mass index, waist-hip ratio, Oral glucose tolerance test, lipid profile, insulin, HOMA-IR, adiponectin, interleukin1β, visfatin, resistin, tissue factor, PT and APTT showed considerable derangements in OCP group. All above parameters are associated with the risk of diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, coronary vascular disease, cancers, hypercoagulable state, venous thromboembolism and thrombotic events. Long-term use of OCPs needs to be considered carefully for PCOS patients who are already burdened with associated risk factors. This study was conducted in a region where women do not have much access to high-end screening and diagnostic facilities that further exacerbates their clinical outcomes. Large scale, long-term studies need to be designed to further evaluate safety use of OCPs in PCOS women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308416	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308416	diabetes
Scientific reports	Immunological evidence for in vivo production of novel advanced glycation end-products from 1,5-anhydro-D-fructose, a glycogen metabolite.	The anhydrofructose pathway is an alternate pathway for glycogen degradation by α-1,4-glucan lyase. The sugar 1,5-anhydro-D-fructose (1,5-AF) acts as the central intermediate of this pathway, but its physiological role of in mammals is unclear. Glycation reactions forming advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) are important in the development of complications of diabetes mellitus. We hypothesized that 1,5-AF may contribute to cellular damage by forming 1,5-AF-derived AGEs (AF-AGEs) with intracellular proteins. To clarify the role of 1,5-AF in protein modification, we created a novel antibody targeting AF-AGEs. Serum albumin modified by AF-AGEs was prepared by incubating rabbit serum albumin (RSA) or bovine serum albumin (BSA) with 1,5-AF. After immunizing rabbits with AF-AGEs-RSA, affinity chromatography of anti-AF-AGE antiserum was performed on a Sepharose 4B column coupled with AF-AGEs-BSA or N-(carboxymethyl)/N-(carboxyethyl)lysine-BSA. A novel immunopurified anti-AF-AGE antibody was obtained and was characterized using a competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Then an AF-AGEs assay was established using this immunopurified antibody. This assay was able to detect AF-AGEs in human and animal serum samples. Finally, intracellular accumulation of AF-AGEs was shown to be associated with damage to cultured hepatocytes (HepG2 cells). This is the first report about in vivo detection of AF-AGEs with a novel structural epitope.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308400	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308400	diabetes
NPJ primary care respiratory medicine	Incidence of type II diabetes in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a nested case-control study.	We investigated the incidence of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) among people with COPD and whether exposure to inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and exacerbation status was associated with T2DM. This descriptive cohort study used primary care data from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD). The patient cohort included people with a diagnosis of COPD and previous smoking history registered at a CPRD practice between January 2010 and December 2016. We determined incidence rates by age, gender and deprivation. Using a nested case-control design-where cases and controls are drawn from the cohort population-we matched 1:5 with patients by age, gender and GP practice and estimated odds of T2DM using logistic regression (adjusting for smoking status, deprivation, BMI, hypertension, coronary heart disease and heart failure). We identified 220,971 COPD patients; mean age at COPD diagnosis was 66 years (SD 12) and 54% were male. The incidence rate of T2DM in COPD patients was 1.26 per 100 patient years (95% CI: 1.24-1.28) and was higher among men (1.32 vs 1.18 among women). The adjusted odds ratio for T2DM was 1.47 (95% CI: 1.36-1.60) among frequent exacerbators (≥2 treated exacerbations per year) compared to infrequent exacerbators and the odds ratio for patients receiving high-dose ICS (>800 mcg budesonide equivalent dose) was 1.73 (95% CI 1.65-1.82) compared to patients receiving no ICS therapy. Incidence of T2DM among COPD patients is high and exposure to ICS and frequent exacerbations are associated with a higher risk of T2DM among patients with COPD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308364	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308364	diabetes
Nutrition & diabetes	Development of a delayed-release nutrient for appetite control in adults with obesity and type 2 diabetes and initial clinical testing in a single dose randomized controlled trial.	We conclude that nutrient can be formulated using all-natural ingredients to induce a delayed rise in GLP-1. Further testing is needed to determine the amount and site of nutrient release, when maximum GLP-1 levels occur, and if modification of the formulation specifications and dose are associated with appetite and glucose control.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308360	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308360	diabetes
Internal medicine (Tokyo, Japan)	The Long-term Efficacy of Sodium Glucose Co-transporter 2 Inhibitor in Patients with Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.	Objective Sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor (SGLT-2i), recommended for patients with type 2 diabetes, has been reported to improve the liver function test results in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the long-term effects of SGLT-2i on the liver function and body weight in NAFLD patients have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we investigated the long-term effects of SGLT-2i in NAFLD patients. Methods Twenty-two diabetic patients with NAFLD were enrolled in this study. We assessed the body weight, liver enzyme levels, metabolism, and glucose levels at 12 months (22 cases) and 24 months (15 cases) after the initiation of SGLT-2i. The changes in controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) and liver stiffness in 20 of the 22 patients were evaluated using transient elastography (TE) and acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography before the initiation of treatment and 1 year later. Results Body weight and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels were significantly decreased at 12 and 24 months after SGLT-2i treatment. The decrease in the levels of ALT at 12 and 24 months was significantly correlated with the level of ALT at the initiation of SGLT-2i (r=0.813, p=0.001 and r=0.867, p=0.0001, respectively). SGLT-2i also reduced the CAP and velocity of shear wave (Vs) values at 12 months (CAP 315.1±43.4 db/mL→293.1±27.2 db/mL, p=0.027; Vs 1.87±0.8 m/s→ 1.48±0.6 m/s, p=0.011). Conclusion SGLT-2i treatment improved the liver function test results and reduced the body weight in NAFLD patients over a period of 12-24 months. This improvement was greater in patients with higher ALT values at baseline than in those with lower values.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31308341	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308341	diabetes
Endocrine journal	Comparison of the efficacy and safety of once-daily insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) and long-acting second-generation basal insulin (insulin degludec and insulin glargine 300 units/mL) in insulin-naïve Japanese adults with type 2 diabetes: a pilot, randomized, controlled study.	To examine the efficacy and safety of once-daily insulin degludec/insulin aspart (IDegAsp) or once-daily second-generation basal insulin analogs (insulin degludec and insulin glargine 300 units/mL) in insulin-naïve Japanese adults with type 2 diabetes in routine clinical practice. A 12-week multicenter, open-label, randomized, pilot study was performed in 52 subjects with type 2 diabetes treated with oral antidiabetic drugs (OADs). Subjects were randomized to once-daily IDegAsp (n = 26) or basal insulin (n = 26). The primary endpoint was percent change in HbA1c from baseline to week 12. Furthermore, it was analyzed post hoc in subgroups stratified by baseline HbA1c. During a follow-up period, percent change in HbA1c was not significantly different between the two groups (p = 0.161). Daily insulin doses and frequency of overall hypoglycemia were also similar in the two groups. In post hoc analyses, once-daily basal insulin was more effective than IDegAsp in subjects with HbA1c more than or equal to 8.5% (p < 0.05); however, in subjects with HbA1c less than 8.5%, once-daily IDegAsp showed a significant improvement in percent change in HbA1c at week 12, compared with basal insulin (p < 0.01). Although there was no apparent difference in the HbA1c-lowering effects between two groups, when compared in subjects with HbA1c less than 8.5%, once-daily IDegAsp showed a significant effect in comparison with once-daily basal insulin. These findings suggest that the baseline HbA1c level might provide the important information for choosing IDegAsp or basal insulin in patients insufficiently controlled with OADs. This trial was registered with UMIN (no. UMIN000035431).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31308304	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308304	diabetes
The journal of contemporary dental practice	Correlation of Blood Glucose Levels, Salivary Glucose Levels and Oral Colony Forming Units of 	The positive correlation of salivary glucose with blood glucose shows that it can be utilized as a noninvasive tool for monitoring glycemic status in diabetic patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31308283	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308283	diabetes
The Journal of pharmacology and experimental therapeutics	Effect of Pregnancy on paroxetine-induced adiposity and glucose intolerance in mice.	Long term use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) targeting the serotonin transporter (SERT) has been suggested to be associated with an increased risk for obesity and type 2 diabetes. Previously, using a murine knockout model of SERT, we showed that estrogen suppression is involved in SERT deficiency-induced obesity and glucose intolerance in non-pregnant mice. The present study investigated the effects of chronic paroxetine treatment on adiposity and glucose tolerance in mice before and during pregnancy. Chronic paroxetine treatment in non-pregnant mice resulted in visceral adiposity and glucose intolerance accompanied by reduced circulating 17β-estradiol levels and ovarian expression of the aromatase (Cyp19a1). Remarkably, pregnancy significantly reduced adiposity and improved glucose tolerance in paroxetine-treated mice by rebooting ovarian Cyp19a1 expression and 17β-estradiol production. These effects appear to be reversible as ovarian Cyp19a1 expression and circulating 17β-estradiol returned to pre-pregnancy levels soon following parturition. Similar to pregnant mice, 17β-estradiol replacement treatment in non-pregnant mice reduced paroxetine-induced adiposity. Our findings further suggested that modulation of estrogen synthesis underlies the observed metabolic adverse effects of SSRIs. Although our data revealed a transit reversal effect of pregnancy on SSRI-induced metabolic abnormalities, these observations are experimental and limited to mice. The use of SSRIs during human pregnancy should be cautioned due to potential adverse effects to the fetuses. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: N/A.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308195	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308195	diabetes
Clinical medicine (London, England)	Severe oedema in a patient with diabetes.	A 38-year-old South Asian woman with a long-standing history of poorly controlled diabetes was admitted with severe oedema. Two weeks earlier, she had been treated with insulin for uncomplicated diabetic ketoacidosis. Renal, liver and cardiac causes of oedema were excluded, and it was assumed she may have developed 'insulin oedema'. She responded well to oral diuretics and symptoms resolved within a few weeks. Insulin oedema is an uncommon cause of oedema in patients recently commenced on insulin therapy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308114	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308114	diabetes
Disease models & mechanisms	Mild maternal hyperglycemia in 	Alongside with the obesity epidemic the prevalence of maternal diabetes is rising worldwide and adverse effects on fetal development and metabolic disturbances in the offspring's later life have been described. To clarify if metabolic programming effects occur due to mild maternal hyperglycemia without confounding obesity, we investigated wild-type offspring of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308048	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308048	diabetes
Diabetes care	Successful Treatment of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Induced Diabetes Mellitus With Infliximab.	 	2019	eng	Letter	United States	31308021	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308021	diabetes
Diabetes care	Distinct Patterns of Daily Glucose Variability by Pubertal Status in Youth With Type 1 Diabetes.	Prepubertal youth had greater glucose variability independent of A1C than did pubertal and postpubertal youth. A1C alone does not capture the full range of glycemic parameters, highlighting the added insight of CGM in managing youth with type 1 diabetes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308020	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308020	diabetes
Diabetes care	Educational and Health Outcomes of Children Treated for Type 1 Diabetes: Scotland-Wide Record Linkage Study of 766,047 Children.	Children with type 1 diabetes fare worse than their peers in respect of education and health outcomes, especially if they have higher mean HbA	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308017	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308017	diabetes
The British journal of general practice : the journal of the Royal College of General Practitioners	Workload impact of the Quality and Outcomes Framework for patients with diabetes: an interrupted time series in general practice.	Introduction of the QOF was associated with a modest increase in clinical GP consultation rates and substantial increase in other encounters for patients with diabetes independent of changes in diabetes prevalence. National prevalence of diabetes increased by 90.7% from 2004/2005 to 2014/2015, which, combined with this study's findings, means GPs would have provided nearly double the number of consultations for patients with diabetes over this timescale.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308001	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308001	diabetes
Cardiovascular revascularization medicine : including molecular interventions	Orbital atherectomy for treatment of complex severely calcified coronary artery lesions: Insights from a Veterans Affairs cohort.	This single-center VA cohort demonstrates that patients with severely calcified and anatomically complex coronary artery lesions treated with OA had a low rate of angiographic complications and a high rate of one-year freedom from MACE. Moreover, this study included demographics underrepresented in clinical trials, including those with acute myocardial infarction, left main coronary artery disease, and bifurcation lesions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307929	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307929	diabetes
Primary care diabetes	Foot self-care in diabetes mellitus: Evaluation of patient awareness.	The mean knowledge and practice scores of our patients were moderate, indicating that much is to be done for the education of patients on this matter. We also found that knowledge about the importance of this practice, education status and disease duration had significant influence on the practice of foot-care in patients with DM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307915	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307915	diabetes
Canadian journal of diabetes	Effectiveness of Genistein Supplementation on Metabolic Factors and Antioxidant Status in Postmenopausal Women With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.	Genistein administration improved FBS, A1C, serum TG, TAC and MDA in postmenopausal women with T2DM and may be useful in the control of metabolic status and oxidative stress in these subjects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31307913	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307913	diabetes
Canadian journal of diabetes	Exploring Clinical Care Among Adults With Diabetes Mellitus: Alignment With Recommended Statin and Sulfonylureas Treatment.	Results suggest that PCPs' practice does not always align with current evidence-based clinical guidelines or Choosing Wisely Canada recommendations for patients with DM. Some PCP's characteristics were associated with lower implementation of recommended evidence-based care. This information can help guide future targeted medical education.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31307912	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307912	diabetes
Nutrition, metabolism, and cardiovascular diseases : NMCD	The number and phenotype of myocardial and adipose tissue CD68+ cells is associated with cardiovascular and metabolic disease in heart surgery patients.	Regional-based increases in the frequency of CD68+ cells and changes of their phenotype in CLS were detected in obese patients and CAD patients. Therapeutic modulation of adipose tissue inflammation may represent a target for treatment of obesity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307852	diabetes
Kidney international	Addition of cyclic angiotensin-(1-7) to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy has a positive add-on effect in experimental diabetic nephropathy.	The Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) possesses a counter-regulatory axis composed of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)2, angiotensin-(1-7) [Ang-(1-7)] and the Mas receptor, which opposes many AT1-receptor-mediated effects of ligand angiotensin (Ang)II. Ang-(1-7), as a ligand of the Mas receptor, has inhibitory effects on renal inflammation and fibrosis in experimental diabetes. However, Ang-(1-7) has a short half-life in plasma, which may render it unsuitable for use in clinics. Here, we investigated the effects of the lanthionine-stabilized Ang-(1-7), cyclic (c)Ang-(1-7), a lanthipeptide that is more peptidase-resistant than the linear peptide, in BTBR ob/ob mice with type 2 diabetic nephropathy (DN). BTBR ob/ob mice received vehicle, cAng-(1-7), or the ACE inhibitor lisinopril. The treatment started at ten weeks of age, when the animals had already developed albuminuria, and ended at 19-20 weeks of age. cAng-(1-7) limited albuminuria progression, and limited podocyte dysfunction similarly to lisinopril. cAng-(1-7), unlike lisinopril, reduced glomerular fibrosis and inflammation, and counteracted glomerular capillary rarefaction. Furthermore, when cAng-(1-7) was combined with lisinopril, a superior antiproteinuric effect than with lisinopril alone was found, in association with better preservation of podocyte proteins and amelioration of capillary density. Thus, adding cAng-(1-7) to ACE-inhibitor therapy could benefit those diabetic patients who do not respond completely to ACE-inhibitor therapy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307778	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307778	diabetes
Taiwanese journal of obstetrics & gynecology	Low serum level of irisin and gestational diabetes mellitus.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	China (Republic : 1949- )	31307729	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307729	diabetes
Diabetes research and clinical practice	How can advocates, healthcare professionals and policy makers join forces to fight CVD in people with diabetes?	 	2019	eng	Editorial	Ireland	31307677	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307677	diabetes
Acta neuropsychiatrica	Psychological distress and C-reactive protein in a South African national survey.	Psychological distress was associated with elevated levels of CRP among South African adults. However, the association was confounded by a range of factors, with demographic variables (age, sex and population group) having the largest confounding effect. These findings indicate that CRP is not a useful biomarker of psychological distress, and that additional work is needed on the underlying psychobiology of psychological distress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307562	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307562	diabetes
The Proceedings of the Nutrition Society	Ethnic distinctions in the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes: a focus on black African-Caribbean populations.	Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a global public health priority, particularly for populations of black African-Caribbean ethnicity, who suffer disproportionately high rates of the disease. While the mechanisms underlying the development of T2D are well documented, there is growing evidence describing distinctions among black African-Caribbean populations. In the present paper, we review the evidence describing the impact of black African-Caribbean ethnicity on T2D pathophysiology. Ethnic differences were first recognised through evidence that metabolic syndrome diagnostic criteria fail to detect T2D risk in black populations due to less central obesity and dyslipidaemia. Subsequently more detailed investigations have recognised other mechanistic differences, particularly lower visceral and hepatic fat accumulation and a distinctly hyperinsulinaemic response to glucose stimulation. While epidemiological studies have reported exaggerated insulin resistance in black populations, more detailed and direct measures of insulin sensitivity have provided evidence that insulin sensitivity is not markedly different to other ethnic groups and does not explain the hyperinsulinaemia that is exhibited. These findings lead us to hypothesise that ectopic fat does not play a pivotal role in driving insulin resistance in black populations. Furthermore, we hypothesise that hyperinsulinaemia is driven by lower rates of hepatic insulin clearance rather than heightened insulin resistance and is a primary defect rather than occurring in compensation for insulin resistance. These hypotheses are being investigated in our ongoing South London Diabetes and Ethnicity Phenotyping study, which will enable a more detailed understanding of ethnic distinctions in the pathophysiology of T2D between men of black African and white European ethnicity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307560	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307560	diabetes
Cardiovascular diabetology	GLP-1 secretion in acute ischemic stroke: association with functional outcome and comparison with healthy individuals.	Endogenous GLP-1 levels in patients that recently suffered an ischemic stroke are higher than in healthy controls and remained unchanged at the 3 months follow-up, possibly indicating an elevation of the levels of GLP-1 already pre-stroke. However, no association between endogenous GLP-1 and functional outcome of stroke 3 months post stroke was found.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307484	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307484	diabetes
Environmental health : a global access science source	Susceptibility of prediabetes to the health effect of air pollution: a community-based panel study with a nested case-control design.	PreDM individuals are more susceptible to the acute cardiometabolic effect of air pollution than the healthy individuals. A considerable public health burden can be inferred, given the high prevalence of prediabetes and the ubiquity of air pollution in China and worldwide.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307478	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307478	diabetes
BMC endocrine disorders	Association of insulin, C-peptide and blood lipid patterns in patients with impaired glucose regulation.	IGR led to similar unfavorable blood lipid patterns compared with T2DM patients and an imbalance of insulin and CP serum concentrations during an OGTT.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307454	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307454	diabetes
 	Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors in Regulation of Pathology of Cerebrovascular Disorders	Cerebrovascular disorders including ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage are among the major clinical concerns for which effective therapies are poorly available. Accumulating lines of evidence indicate that drugs acting on nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) may provide therapeutic effects on these disorders, based on their neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory actions. For example, the cholinergic neurotransmission in the central nervous system via nAChRs may function as an endogenous neuroprotective system that prevents pathogenic events associated with ischemic stroke. On the other hand, exogenous administration of nicotine or nAChR agonists to experimental models of ischemic stroke has been reported to produce conflicting results (either protective or deleterious), which may be largely dependent on the different regiments of drug treatments. With regard to intracerebral hemorrhage, preclinical findings suggest that post-treatment with nAChR agonists is effective in alleviating brain tissue damage and neurological outcome. The beneficial actions of nAChR agonist have also been reported for an experimental model of subarachnoid hemorrhage, which should be confirmed by further investigations. Although smoking has been considered as an important risk factor for stroke episodes, specific targeting of the central nAChRs may prove to be an effective and novel strategy for the treatment of diverse types of cerebrovascular disorders.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314414	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314414	stroke
 	Regulation by Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptors of Microglial Glutamate Transporters: Role of Microglia in Neuroprotection	Accumulated evidence shows that activation of microglia is associated with a change in morphology, from ramified to globular, which also represents a transition to M1 microglia. M1 microglia contribute to the induction and development of various neuroinflammatory disorders, including stroke, spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease psychiatric disorders, neuropathic pain and epilepsy. Thus, inhibition of microglial activation would be crucial in treating neurological disorders. Recent studies suggest a number of attractive molecular targets for blocking microglial activation. Among them, the nicotinic ACh receptor (nAChR), which especially contains the α7 subunit, contributes to the regulation of microglial activity through the inhibition of the synthesis of proinflammatory molecules. In addition, the glutamate transporter GLAST expressed in microglia is upregulated by α7 nAChR stimulation, which is mediated through both inositol triphosphate-Ca	2019	eng	Review	 	31314410	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314410	stroke
 	Nicotinic Acetylcholine Receptor Signaling: Roles in Neuroprotection	Glutamate neurotoxicity is involved in various neurodegenerative disorders including brain ischemic stroke, trauma, and Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases. In addition to excitatory neuronal death, neuroinflammation accompanied by the activation of glial cells has been shown to be induced by these disorders. We previously reported the roles of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the survival of central nervous system neurons during excitotoxic events and neuroinflammation. Nicotine and other nAChR agonists protected cortical neurons against glutamate neurotoxicity via α4- and α7-nAChRs in cultures of neurons obtained from the cerebral cortex of fetal rats. In addition, donepezil, a therapeutic acetylcholinesterase inhibitor currently being used for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease, protected neuronal cells from glutamate neurotoxicity. Moreover, nicotine and donepezil induced the upregulation of nAChRs. Thus, we propose that nicotine as well as donepezil prevents glutamate neurotoxicity through Α4- and α7-nAChRs and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway. In addition to the beneficial effect on neuronal cells, we have reported the responses of astrocytes to bradykinin, an inflammatory mediator, and the effect of nAChR stimulation on these responses using cultured cortical astrocytes. Bradykinin induced a transient increase of intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca	2019	eng	Review	 	31314407	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314407	stroke
Cardiology	Questions on Percutaneous Patent Foramen Ovale Closure for Secondary Stroke Prevention: The Heads of the Lernaean Hydra.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31315106	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315106	stroke
Pharmacological research	Inflammation within the Neurovascular Unit: Focus on Microglia for Stroke Injury and Recovery.	Neuroinflammation underlies the etiology of multiple neurodegenerative diseases and stroke. Our understanding of neuroinflammation has evolved in the last few years and major players have been identified. Microglia, the brain resident macrophages, are considered sentinels at the forefront of the neuroinflammatory response to different brain insults. Interestingly, microglia perform other physiological functions in addition to their role in neuroinflammation. Therefore, an updated approach in which modulation, rather than complete elimination of microglia is necessary. In this review, the emerging roles of microglia and their interaction with different components of the neurovascular unit are discussed. In addition, recent data on sex differences in microglial physiology and in the context of stroke will be presented. Finally, the multiplicity of roles assumed by microglia in the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke, and in the presence of co-morbidities such as hypertension and diabetes are summarized.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31315064	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315064	stroke
The New England journal of medicine	Effect of Systolic and Diastolic Blood Pressure on Cardiovascular Outcomes.	Although systolic blood-pressure elevation had a greater effect on outcomes, both systolic and diastolic hypertension independently influenced the risk of adverse cardiovascular events, regardless of the definition of hypertension (≥140/90 mm Hg or ≥130/80 mm Hg). (Funded by the Kaiser Permanente Northern California Community Benefit Program.).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314968	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314968	stroke
Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	Sarcoid vasculitis presenting with stroke: 3D T1 dark blood vessel wall imaging.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314850	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314850	stroke
Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	The cost of stroke in a public hospital in Brazil: a one-year prospective study.	Reperfusion treatments were two-to-four times more expensive than conservative treatment. A cost-effectiveness study of the IS treatment option is necessary.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314842	stroke
Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	The cost of stroke in private hospitals in Brazil: a one-year prospective study.	Stroke is a costly disease. In the private sector, the costs of cerebral reperfusion for IS treatment were three-to-ten times higher than for usual treatments. Therefore, cost-effectiveness studies are urgently needed in low- and middle-income countries.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314841	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314841	stroke
Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	Relationship between pulmonary function, functional independence, and trunk control in patients with stroke.	The present study showed that respiratory muscle strength, pulmonary function, functional independence, and trunk control are reduced in patients diagnosed with stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314840	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314840	stroke
Journal of motor behavior	Effect of tDCS on Fine Motor Control of Patients in Subacute and Chronic Post-Stroke Stages.	Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a noninvasive brain stimulation technique, which has been investigated extensively as a potential treatment for stroke. In this study, we wanted to delineate weather the application of tDCS in the subacute stage of recovery post-stroke is superior over the chronic stage. Anodal and sham tDCS was applied to the primary motor cortex of 13 stroke patients in balanced cross-over design during subacute and chronic stages of recovery. The Jebsen-Taylor Hand Function test, evaluating the time required for performance of everyday motor tasks, was employed. The repeated-measure ANOVA showed significant influence of stimulation type, the test performance time relative to stimulation (during or after tDCS) with no overall influence of the stage of recovery. The interaction TYPE*TIME*STAGE was significant. The effect after anodal tDCS in the subacute stage was significantly higher compared to the effects in all relevant conditions including the chronic stage. All responders in this condition were women; six men and one woman did not respond to any stimulation conditions in the subacute stage. tDCS treatment in the subacute stage of recovery can be superior, at least for some patients, over the treatment in the chronic stage.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314702	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314702	stroke
European journal of haematology	Risk of bleeding and thrombosis in inherited qualitative fibrinogen disorders.	This study confirms the heterogeneity of clinical features in inherited dysfibrinogenemia, due to the wide spectrum of the causative mutations. Larger multicenter studies are needed to assess the definitive correlation of some mutations with bleeding or thrombosis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314131	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314131	stroke
Biotechnology and applied biochemistry	Combinational effect of angiotensin receptor blocker and folic acid therapy on uric acid and creatinine level in hyperhomocysteinemia associated hypertension.	Homocysteine [HSCH2CH2CH(NH2)COOH] (Hcy), is a sulfur-containing amino acid of 135.18 Da of molecular weight, generated during conversion of methionine to cysteine. If there is a higher accumulation of Hcy in the blood, i.e. usually above 15 µmol/L, it leads to a condition referred to as hyperhomocysteinemia. A meta-analysis of observational study suggested an elevated concentration of Hcy in blood, which is termed as the risk factors leading to ischemic heart disease (IHD) and stroke. Further experimental studies stated that Hcy can lead to an increase in the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells and functional impairment of endothelial cells. The analyses confirmed some of the predictors for Hcy presence, such as serum uric acid (UA), systolic blood pressure, and hematocrit. However, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ARBs) (except losartan) alone are inadequate for controlling UA and creatinine level, although the addition of folic acid may be beneficial in hypertensive patients who are known to have a high prevalence of elevated Hcy. We hypothesized that combination therapy with an ARB (olmesartan) and folic acid is a promising treatment for lowering the UA and creatinine level in hyperhomocysteinemia associated hypertension. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31314127	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314127	stroke
JAMA cardiology	Effect of Simvastatin-Ezetimibe Compared With Simvastatin Monotherapy After Acute Coronary Syndrome Among Patients 75 Years or Older: A Secondary Analysis of a Randomized Clinical Trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00202878.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314050	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314050	stroke
Clinical cardiology	EvaluatioN of ApiXaban in strOke and systemic embolism prevention in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation in clinical practice Setting in France, rationale and design of the NAXOS: SNIIRAM study.	Non-vitamin K antagonists oral anticoagulants (NOACs) have recently challenged vitamin-K antagonists (VKAs) for stroke and systemic embolism prophylaxis in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF). Nevertheless, little information is available in routine clinical practice for France. The aim of this study is to describe the effectiveness and safety of apixaban, rivaroxaban, dabigatran or VKAs in routine clinical practice in adult NVAF patients for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in France. The NAXOS study is a nationwide observational retrospective cohort generated from the French national healthcare insurance database (SNIIRAM-a comprehensive in- and outpatient healthcare consumption database), consisting of eight distinct sub-cohorts of anticoagulant-naive or anticoagulant-experienced patients diagnosed with NVAF, newly initiated with either NOACs (dabigatran, rivaroxaban or apixaban) or VKAs. Patients will be included if initiating a new anticoagulant treatment for AF during the study period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2016. Primary effectiveness outcome will be the incidence of stroke or systemic thromboembolic events; primary safety outcome will be the incidence of major bleeding during the exposure period. The NAXOS study will provide routine clinical practice data on the effectiveness and safety profiles of apixaban vs other NOACs and VKAs in the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with NVAF in clinical practice conditions in France.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313832	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313832	stroke
Neurosurgery	Mechanical Thrombectomy in Acute Ischemic Stroke: A Meta-Analysis of Stent Retrievers vs Direct Aspiration vs a Combined Approach.	Stent retrieval thrombectomy and direct aspiration did not show significant differences. Current available evidence is not sufficient to draw conclusions on the best surgical approach. The combined use of a stent retriever and aspiration as a first-line strategy was associated with higher mTICI 2b/3 and mTICI 3 recanalization rates, although with a higher risk of 24-h SAH, when compared with direct aspiration.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313819	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313819	stroke
Neurorehabilitation and neural repair	Forced, Not Voluntary, Aerobic Exercise Enhances Motor Recovery in Persons With Chronic Stroke.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313626	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313626	stroke
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Hemorrhagic Stroke in Chronic Kidney Disease.	Hemorrhagic stroke is leading cause of death in Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) population. Uremic patients are susceptible to hemorrhagic complications due to multiple reasons i.e platelet dysfunction, low platelet number, use of heparin during hemodialysis, use of anticoagulants for thromboembolic risk etc. Prevention and treatment of hemorrhagic stroke is complicated in CKD setting and if not managed properly can lead to several fold increased mortality and morbidity rate. In this brief review we will discuss about the magnitude of hemorrhagic stroke, important risk factors and outcomes in predialysis and dialysis setting and its important preventive and treatment strategy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31313552	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313552	stroke
Congenital heart disease	Detection of arrhythmias in adult congenital heart disease patients with LINQ	ILRs are a useful adjunct for arrhythmia monitoring in the ACHD population with clinically relevant events in 41% of patients. A special consideration for ILRs could be made for high-risk asymptomatic patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313513	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313513	stroke
Pharmacoepidemiology and drug safety	The comparative effectiveness of fourth-line drugs in resistant hypertension: An application in electronic health record data.	A higher rate of all-cause death in the AA group was likely due to unmeasured confounding in our analysis of the composite primary outcome, supported by our negative outcome analysis. Results for cardiovascular outcomes were plausible, but imprecise due to small cohort sizes and a low number of observed outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313390	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313390	stroke
Developmental medicine and child neurology	Factors associated with fatigue in children with perinatal stroke.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313285	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313285	stroke
Cardiology journal	Non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants in patients with atrial fibrillation in secondary stroke and systemic embolism prevention.	Nearly all hospitalized patients with AF received OAC in the secondary prevention of thromboembolic complications. NOACs were used for secondary prevention of stroke among patients with AF in patients with fewer comorbidities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	31313276	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313276	stroke
Neurocritical care	A Pilot Study of Pharyngeal Electrical Stimulation for Orally Intubated ICU Patients with Dysphagia.	Although limited by its small size and non-blinded design, this is the first study demonstrating the benefits of PES in ICU patients still orally intubated, thus offering a potential new method to reduce morbidity, mortality, and economic burden in a mixed ICU population. In order to further investigate and strengthen our findings, a statistically powered, randomized controlled study is recommended.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313142	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313142	stroke
CNS drugs	Temporal Trends and Predictors of Drug Utilization and Outcomes in First-Ever Stroke Patients: A Population-Based Study Using the Singapore Stroke Registry.	Prescription of secondary stroke preventive medications (particularly in ischemic stroke) was associated with more favorable outcomes, highlighting the importance of physician adherence to evidence-based pharmacotherapy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31313138	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313138	stroke
Journal of general internal medicine	Nonbacterial Thrombotic Endocarditis Due to Primary Gallbladder Malignancy with Recurrent Stroke Despite Anticoagulation: Case Report and Literature Review.	Nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis (NBTE) associated with malignancy is rare; its infrequency and similarity to other diagnoses make it a significant diagnostic challenge. A 63-year-old woman on rivaroxaban for prior deep vein thrombosis presented with left upper extremity weakness and left facial droop with imaging demonstrating multiple strokes. Echocardiograms revealed mitral and aortic valve vegetations. The patient was switched to apixaban and started on vancomycin and ceftriaxone for presumed culture-negative endocarditis. Despite continuing apixaban, her hospital course was complicated by new acute embolic infarcts. Workup confirmed non-mucinous metastatic biliary adenocarcinoma. The patient was placed on a heparin drip then switched to low molecular weight heparin without further embolic events and was discharged to a rehabilitation facility in stable condition with plans for chemotherapy as an outpatient. These clinical, imaging, and histologic findings were consistent with a rare case of NBTE associated with primary non-mucinous gallbladder malignancy complicated by recurrent strokes in which direct oral anticoagulants did not provide adequate anticoagulation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313109	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313109	stroke
Inflammopharmacology	Cysteinyl leukotriene receptor type 1 antagonist montelukast protects against injury of blood-brain barrier.	The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by tightly connected cerebrovascular endothelial cells. Injury of human brain endothelial cells can cause disruption of the BBB and severe injury to brain tissue. Signals mediated cysteinyl leukotrienes (cysLTs) and their receptors are involved in a variety of pathological conditions. In the current study, our results show that oxygen glucose-deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) induced the expression of leukotriene receptor type 1 (cysLT1R) in brain endothelial cells. Blockage of cysLT1R by its specific antagonist montelukast suppressed OGD/R-induced altered permeability of the human brain endothelial cell (EC) monolayer. Mechanistically, montelukast treatment reversed OGD/R-induced reduction of the tight junction proteins occludin and zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1). Montelukast also ameliorated OGD/R-induced reduction of inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (TIMPs), such as TIMP-1 and TIMP-2. On the other hand, montelukast suppressed the expression and production of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and cytokines including MMP-2, MMP-9, interleukin 1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin 6 (IL-6). Using a murine middle cerebral artery occlusion brain injury model, we demonstrated that the administration of montelukast improved the surgery-induced brain injury and protected against disruption of brain endothelial junction proteins such as occludin and ZO-1. Collectively, our data suggest that montelukast might confer protective roles against injury in brain endothelial cells.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31313075	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313075	stroke
Neuromolecular medicine	Altered Hippocampal-Prefrontal Dynamics Following Medial Prefrontal Stroke in Mouse.	Frontal infarcts can produce cognitive impairments that affect an individual's ability to function in everyday life. However, the precise types of deficits, and their underlying mechanisms, are not well-understood. Here we used a prefrontal photothrombotic stroke model in C57BL/6J mice to characterise specific cognitive changes that occur in the 6 weeks post-stroke. Behavioural experiments were paired with in vivo electrophysiology to assess whether changes in oscillatory communication between the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the hippocampus (HPC) mirrored any observed behavioural changes. We found that mice in the stroke group exhibited a delayed onset impairment in tasks of spatial working memory (object location recognition and Y-maze) and that this correlated with reduced PFC-HPC theta band coherence (5-12 Hz) during the task. In the open field, mice in the stroke group exhibited hyperactivity as compared to controls, and stroke animals also exhibited significantly higher beta band activity (13-30 Hz) in the PFC and the HPC. Taken together our results suggest that infarcts in the PFC result in PFC-HPC oscillatory communication changes in the theta and beta bands, correlating with altered performance in spatial memory and open field tasks respectively. Of particular interest, early open field changes in PFC beta band power post-stroke correlated to later-stage spatial memory impairments, highlighting this as a potential biomarker for detecting when spatial memory impairments are likely to occur.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313065	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313065	stroke
Journal of molecular neuroscience : MN	Association Between Cystatin C and the Risk of Ischemic Stroke: a Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.	Ischemic stroke is a disease that affects people	2019	eng	Review	United States	31313057	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313057	stroke
General thoracic and cardiovascular surgery	Current status of cardiovascular surgery in Japan, 2015 and 2016: analysis of data from Japan Cardiovascular Surgery Database. 4-Thoracic aortic surgery.	The number of operations for thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic diseases has increased, though the rate of operations using an OAR approach has decreased. While TEVAR showed the lowest mortality and morbidity rates, OAR demonstrated the lowest postoperative stroke rate for non-dissecting aortic arch aneurysms.	2019	eng	Review	Japan	31312983	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312983	stroke
EClinicalMedicine	Sickle cell trait and risk of cognitive impairment in African-Americans: The REGARDS cohort.	National Institutes of Health, American Society of Hematology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312804	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312804	stroke
Cureus	Complications of Microvascular Upper Lip and Free Grafted Nasal and Eyebrow Replantation After Assault via Human Bite.	Amputation of facial soft tissue, particularly avulsion due to human bite, is an uncommon injury that has severe cosmetic and functional implications. Microsurgical replantation has the potential for superior aesthetic outcomes and restoration of function. We report a case of a 46--year-old male who sustained avulsion injuries from human bites, which included portions of his eyebrow, nose, and upper lip. Artery and vein microvascular replantation was performed on the upper lip. The amputated eyebrow and nasal segments were replanted in a similar fashion to a skin graft. On post-operation day 1, our patient suffered an ischemic stroke followed by a myocardial infarction requiring systemic tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) treatment. Following administration of tPA, there was continuous bloody discharge from the replant sites and the eyebrow, nose, and upper lip began to appear increasingly dusky. Our patient was determined to be a high-risk candidate for immediate revision surgery and he subsequently underwent a six-stage secondary reconstruction. At his most recent four-month follow-up, our patient is satisfied with his cosmetic and functional outcomes. This was a case of failed microvascular upper lip replantation and eyebrow and nasal replacement complicated by stroke and myocardial infarction. The authors review the common complications in replantation, particularly pertaining to upper lip reanastamosis, and discuss a potential novel complication encountered in this case relevant to both free graft and microvascular replantation.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31312557	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312557	stroke
Cureus	Cardiac Ultrasound in the Intensive Care Unit: A Review.	Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) is an incredibly valuable tool in today's emergency rooms and intensive care units (ICUs). It has the ability to provide a complete evaluation of the structure and function of the heart, the valves, stroke volume, ejection fraction, and much more. Previous academic studies have also determined that point-of-care TTE done by non-cardiologist physicians can also provide higher accuracy in patient assessment and management, with potential prognostic impact by assessing the severity of cardiac dysfunction and response to treatment. The aim of this review article is to examine further these point-of-care evaluations, what they entail, their benefits, and where further research would better our own understanding.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31312539	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312539	stroke
Multidisciplinary respiratory medicine	Prevalence, risk factors and outcomes of patients coming from the community with sepsis due to multidrug resistant bacteria.	In light of the prevalence and impact of MDR bacteria causing sepsis in patients coming from the community, physicians should consider ESBL coverage when starting an empiric antibiotic therapy in patients with specific risk factors, especially in the presence of septic shock.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312449	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312449	stroke
American journal of translational research	Significant role and mechanism of microRNA-143-3p/KLLN axis in the development of coronary heart disease.	Cardiovascular disease predominantly includes coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke, results in high morbidity and mortality. MicroRNA-143-3p (miR-143-3p) is a tumor suppressor and is involved in many cancers. However, the role and mechanism of miR-143-3p in coronary heart disease is still unclear. In this study, we identified that miR-143-3p was up-regulated in rabbit CHD model. The results of TargetScan and the dual luciferase reporter assay indicated that KLLN (killin, p53 regulated DNA replication inhibitor) was a direct target of miR-143-3p. Besides, we revealed that KLLN was down-regulated in rabbit coronary heart disease model. In addition, we found that the related-markers of CHD such as TC (total cholesterol), TG (triglyceride), and LDLC (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol) in the model group were significantly increased than that in the control group. And compared with the model group, miR-143-3p inhibitor significantly reduced TC, TG, LDLC expression, while miR-143-3p mimic further increased the expression of TC, TG, and LDLC. We next found that miR-143-3p mimic promoted cell viability and migration of vascular smooth muscle cells, inhibited apoptosis; and these changes were reversed by KLLN-plasmid. And miR-143-3p inhibitor had the counter effects. Our study provided a new target for the treatment of CHD and deserves further study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312371	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312371	stroke
Frontiers in microbiology	Antifungal Activity and Potential Mechanism of N-Butylphthalide Alone and in Combination With Fluconazole Against 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312187	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312187	stroke
Frontiers in neurology	Prominent FLAIR Vascular Hyperintensity Is a Predictor of Unfavorable Outcomes in Non-thrombolysed Ischemic Stroke Patients With Mild Symptoms and Large Artery Occlusion.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312181	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312181	stroke
Frontiers in neurology	Old Dog New Tricks; Revisiting How Stroke Modulates the Systemic Immune Landscape.	Infections in the post-acute phase of cerebral ischaemia impede optimal recovery by exacerbating morbidity and mortality. Our review aims to reconcile the increased infection susceptibility of patients post-stroke by consolidating our understanding of compartmentalised alterations to systemic immunity. Mounting evidence has catalogued alterations to numerous immune cell populations but an understanding of the mechanisms of long-range communication between the immune system, nervous system and other organs beyond the involvement of autonomic signalling is lacking. By taking our cues from established and emerging concepts of neuro-immune interactions, immune-mediated inter-organ cross-talk, innate immune training and the role of microbiota-derived signals in central nervous system (CNS) function we will explore mechanisms of how cerebral ischaemia could shape systemic immune function. In this context, we will also discuss a key question: how are immune requirements critical for mediating repair of the ischaemic insult balanced by the need for anti-microbial immunity post-stroke, given that they are mediated by mutually exclusive immune networks? Our reformed understanding of the immune landscape post-stroke and novel mechanisms at play could guide targeted therapeutic interventions and initiate a step-change in the clinical management of these infectious complications post-stroke.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312180	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312180	stroke
Frontiers in neurology	Plasma Amyloid Beta and Tau Levels Are Predictors of Post-stroke Cognitive Impairment: A Longitudinal Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312178	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312178	stroke
Frontiers in neurology	Plasma Oxidized Albumin in Acute Ischemic Stroke Is Associated With Better Outcomes.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312177	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312177	stroke
Frontiers in neurology	Lack of Correlation Between Intracranial Carotid Artery Modified Woodcock Calcification Score and Prognosis of Patients With Acute Ischemic Stroke After Intravenous Thrombolysis.	There have been few studies about the association between intracranial carotid artery calcification (ICAC) and acute ischemic stroke (AIS) prognosis after intravenous thrombolysis (IVT). We aimed to analyze the association between ICAC and prognosis (including symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (sICH), functional outcome and death) of AIS patients treated with IVT. In this retrospective study, we consecutively included 232 AIS patients treated with IVT between April 2012 and December 2018. ICAC was evaluated using the modified Woodcock calcification visual score on non-enhanced cranial computed tomography scans. Poor functional outcome was defined as a modified Rankin Scale score > 2 at 3 months. We found that the modified Woodcock calcification score was associated with ICH, poor outcome, and death in univariable analyses on the symptomatic side and/or bilaterally. However, after adjustment for other different covariates, the results showed no significant difference. We documented that the presence and severity of ICAC did not significantly modify the beneficial effects of rtPA treatment in AIS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312173	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312173	stroke
Frontiers in neurology	Eligibility Screening for an Early Upper Limb Stroke Rehabilitation Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312170	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312170	stroke
Frontiers in aging neuroscience	Prefrontal Cortex Activation During Dual Task With Increasing Cognitive Load in Subacute Stroke Patients: A Pilot Study.	Stroke patients often exhibit difficulties performing a cognitive task while walking, defined as a dual task (DT). Their prefrontal cortex (PFC) activity is higher in DT than in single task (ST). The effects of an increasing load on PFC activity during DT in subacute stroke patients remains unexplored. Our objective was to assess the effects of N-back tasks (low/high load) on cerebral activity, gait parameters, and cognitive performances. Eleven subacute stroke patients (days post-stroke 45.8 ± 31.6) participated in this pilot study (71.4 ± 10 years, BMI 26.7 ± 4.8 kg.m	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312136	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312136	stroke
Frontiers in cellular neuroscience	Early Post-stroke Activation of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor 2 Hinders the Receptor 1-Dependent Neuroprotection Afforded by the Endogenous Ligand.	Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has long been connected to the development of tissue lesion following ischemic stroke. Contradictory findings either situate VEGF as a promoter of large infarct volumes or as a potential attenuator of damage due to its well documented neuroprotective capability. The core of this discrepancy mostly lies on the substantial number of pleiotropic functions driven by VEGF. Mechanistically, these effects are activated through several VEGF receptors for which various closely related ligands exist. Here, we tested in an experimental model of stroke how the differential activation of VEGF receptors 1 and 2 would modify functional and histological outcomes in the acute phase post-ischemia. We also assessed whether VEGF-mediated responses would involve the modulation of inflammatory mechanisms and how this trophic factor acted specifically on neuronal receptors. We produced ischemic infarcts in adult rats by transiently occluding the middle cerebral artery and induced the pharmacological inhibition of VEGF receptors by i.c.v. administration of the specific VEGFR2 inhibitor SU1498 and the pan-VEGFR blocker Axitinib. We evaluated the neurological performance of animals at 24 h following stroke and the occurrence of brain infarctions analyzed at the gross metabolic and neuronal viability levels. We also assessed the induction of peripheral pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the cerebrospinal fluid and blood and assessed the polarization of activated microglia. Finally, we studied the direct involvement of cortical neuronal receptors for VEGF with 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312121	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312121	stroke
The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience	Circular RNA TLK1 aggravates neuronal injury and neurological deficits after ischemic stroke via miR-335-3p/TIPARP.	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are expressed at high levels in the brain and are involved in various central nervous system diseases. However, the potential role of circRNAs in ischemic stroke-associated neuronal injury remains largely unknown. Here, we investigated the important functions of circRNA TLK1 (circTLK1) in this process. The levels of circTLK1 were significantly increased in brain tissues in a mouse model of focal cerebral ischemia and reperfusion. Knockdown of circTLK1 significantly decreased infarct volumes, attenuated neuronal injury, and improved neurological deficits. Furthermore, circTLK1 functioned as an endogenous miR-335-3p sponge to inhibit miR-335-3p activity, resulting in the increase of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)-inducible poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase expression and a subsequent exacerbation of neuronal injury. Clinical studies confirmed increased levels of circTLK1 in the plasma of patients with acute ischemic stroke (59 males and 12 females). Our findings reveal a detrimental role of circTLK1 in ischemic brain injury.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311824	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311824	stroke
Enfermeria clinica	The effectiveness of discharge planning stroke patient due to hypertension to improve patient satisfaction and independence.	It is concluded that discharge planning is necessary to be implemented for stroke patient and used by the healthcare team to perform the care and treatment.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31311741	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311741	stroke
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Higher Coated-Platelet Levels in Acute Stroke are Associated with Lower Cognitive Scores at Three Months Post Infarction.	These findings support a link between increased platelet procoagulant potential at the time of the stroke and development of cognitive impairment following cerebral infarction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311696	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311696	stroke
The American journal of cardiology	Meta-Analysis of Oral Anticoagulant Monotherapy as an Antithrombotic Strategy in Patients With Stable Coronary Artery Disease and Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation.	Guidelines recommend oral anticoagulant (OAC) monotherapy without antiplatelet therapy (APT) in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (AF) with stable coronary artery disease (CAD) of >1 year after myocardial infarction or percutaneous coronary intervention. More evidences are required for the safety and efficacy of OAC monotherapy compared with OAC plus APT. PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews were systematically searched up to February 2019. Nonrandomized studies and randomized clinical trials comparing OAC monotherapy with OAC plus single APT (SAPT) for patients with stable CAD and nonvalvular AF. The primary end point was major adverse cardiovascular events (composite of ischemic or thrombotic events) and secondary outcomes included major bleeding, stroke, all-cause death, and net adverse events (composite of ischemic, thrombotic, or bleeding events). From 6 trials, 8,855 patients were included. There was no significant difference in major adverse cardiovascular event in patients with AF treated using OAC plus SAPT compared with those treated with OAC monotherapy (hazard ratio [HR] 1.09; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.92 to 1.29). OAC plus SAPT was associated with a significantly higher risk of major bleeding compared with OAC monotherapy (HR 1.61; 95% CI 1.38 to 1.87), as well as in terms of net adverse event (HR 1.21; 95% CI 1.02 to 1.43). There were no significant differences in rates of stroke and all-cause death. In conclusion, in this meta-analysis, OAC monotherapy and OAC plus SAPT treatment showed similar effectiveness, but OAC monotherapy was significantly associated with a lower risk of bleeding compared with OAC plus SAPT in patients with nonvalvular AF and stable CAD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311662	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311662	stroke
Trials	A combination of multimodal physical exercises in real and virtual environments for individuals after chronic stroke: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.	Combinação de exercícios físicos multimodais em ambientes real e virtual para indivíduos pós acidente vascular cerebral crônico, RBR-4pt72m . Registered on 29 August 2016.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311595	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311595	stroke
Stroke	Radial Artery Catheterization for Neuroendovascular Procedures.	Background and Purpose- Radial artery catheterization is an alternate route of access that has started to gain more widespread use for neuroendovascular procedures, and there have been few studies that describe its safety and efficacy. We present our institution's experience in performing neuroendovascular interventions via a transradial approach, with excellent clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction measures. Methods- We conducted a retrospective analysis and identified 223 patients who underwent 233 consecutive neuroendovascular interventions via radial artery access at our institution. The incidence of perioperative and postprocedural complications was investigated. We identified a subset of 98 patients who have undergone both transradial and transfemoral cerebral angiograms and compared clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction measures between the 2 groups. Results- The overall incidence of complications was low across all procedures performed via transradial access. Peri-procedurally, only 2 patients had symptomatic radial artery spasm, and there were no instances of iatrogenic complications (vessel dissection, stroke, and hemorrhage). In 10 cases (4.3%), the intended procedure could not be completed via a transradial approach, and, thus, femoral artery access had to be pursued instead. Ten patients complained of minor postprocedural complications, although none required therapeutic intervention. The mean procedure time was shorter for diagnostic angiograms performed via transradial versus transfemoral access (18.8±15.8 versus 39.5±31.1 minutes; P=0.025). Patients overall reported shorter recovery times with transradial access, and the majority of patients (94%) would elect to have subsequent procedures performed via this route. Conclusions- Radial artery catheterization is a safe and durable alternative to perform a wide range of neuroendovascular procedures, with a low rate of complications. On the whole, patients prefer transradial compared with transfemoral access.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311466	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311466	stroke
Stroke	Magnitude of Benefit of Combined Endovascular Thrombectomy and Intravenous Fibrinolysis in Large Vessel Occlusion Ischemic Stroke.	Background and Purpose- Quantifying the benefit magnitude of combined endovascular thrombectomy (EVT) and intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) versus nonreperfusion care in patients with acute ischemic stroke caused by large vessel occlusion would aid organization of regional stroke care systems. Methods- NINDS rt-PA Study (National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke Recombinant Tissue Plasminogen Activator) and SWIFT PRIME trial (Solitaire With the Intention for Thrombectomy as Primary Endovascular Treatment) patients were matched for prognosis (based on age and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale) and definite/likely anterior circulation large vessel occlusion (based on National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale total score and item pattern), using optimal inverse variance matching, to determine comparative outcomes with nonreperfusion care alone, IVT alone, and IVT+EVT. Results- Matching yielded 240 patients, including 80 each treated with nonreperfusion care, IVT alone, and IVT+EVT, with, respectively, mean age 67.1, 67.1, and 66.9 and presenting deficit severity (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale) mean 15.8, 15.9, and 15.9. Outcomes at 3 months for IVT+EVT versus nonreperfusion care included freedom from disability (modified Rankin Scale score, 0-1) 48.1% versus 21.3%, P=0.0004; functional independence (modified Rankin Scale score, 0-2) 62.9% versus 32.6, P=0.0001; and reduced disability over all 7 modified Rankin Scale levels, common odds ratio 3.34, P<0.0001. Outcomes for IVT alone versus nonreperfusion care included: freedom from disability 30.0% versus 21.3%, P=0.28 and reduced disability over all 7 modified Rankin Scale levels, common odds ratio 1.14, P=0.65. Compared with nonreperfusion care, the number needed to treat with EVT+IVT for 1 more patient to have reduced disability was 1.8. Conclusions- Matched patient analysis across randomized trials provides evidence that the strategy of combined IVT and mechanical thrombectomy is a highly beneficial treatment strategy for acute ischemic stroke caused by large vessel occlusion patients. A reasonable effect magnitude estimate is that, among every 100 patients treated, combined IVT+EVT reperfusion therapy, compared with no reperfusion therapy, reduces long-term disability in 57, including conferring functional independence upon 30.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311465	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311465	stroke
Topics in stroke rehabilitation	Long-term effects on body functions, activity and participation of hemiplegic patients in equino varus foot deformity surgical correction followed by immediate rehabilitation. A prospective observational study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311449	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311449	stroke
Topics in stroke rehabilitation	Clinical application of backward walking training to improve walking function, balance, and fall-risk in acute stroke: a case series.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311448	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311448	stroke
Assistive technology : the official journal of RESNA	Immediate effect of a wearable foot drop stimulator to prevent foot drop on the gait ability of patients with hemiplegia after stroke.	The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of a foot drop stimulator (FDS) and ankle-foot orthosis (AFO) on the gait ability of patients with hemiplegia after stroke. This study recruited 10 patients with hemiplegia after stroke. All patients performed gait under two conditions (AFO and FDS gait). Gait parameters were measured with the GAITRite® system to analyze the spatial and temporal parameters of the patients' gaits. No significant differences in cadence, velocity, swing time, stance time, or step length of the affected or less-affected limbs were found between the two conditions (all, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311426	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311426	stroke
Journal of the American Heart Association	Is Transient Takotsubo Syndrome Associated With Cancer? Why, and With What Implications for Oncocardiology?	See Article Cammann et al.	2019	eng	Editorial	England	31311390	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311390	stroke
The Journal of international medical research	Effects of physical therapy on mental function in patients with stroke.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311379	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311379	stroke
Interventional neuroradiology : journal of peritherapeutic neuroradiology, surgical procedures and related neurosciences	Technical note on endovascular treatment of concomitant carotid occlusion in large vessel occlusion stroke: The "single-cross" technique.	The single-cross technique appears to be a safe and effective option for treating tandem occlusive lesions in the setting of ELVO.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311374	stroke
Disability and rehabilitation	Dosage and predictors of arm practice during inpatient stroke rehabilitation: an inception cohort study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311348	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311348	stroke
Expert opinion on drug delivery	Drug-like delivery methods of stem cells as biologics for stroke.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311344	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311344	stroke
Annals of rehabilitation medicine	Effort Assessment of Stroke Patients in Physiotherapy Session by Accelerometry and Perceived Exertion Score: Preliminary Study.	While there was an insignificant correlation between perceived exertion and effort intensity measured by a wearable sensor, a consistent variations in perceived exertion estimates according to the side of the cerebral lesion was identified and established.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31311247	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311247	stroke
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Interesting Case of Stroke.	We report regarding a 46 year old female patient, who presented with complaints of severe headache and right sided weakness. Examination revealed right Hemiplegia with BP of 144/90 mm Hg. Investigations revealed Creatine Kinase: 470IU/L, normal Blood counts, ESR and CRP. Thyroid profile was normal. Fibrinogen levels were 17.9mg/dl and repeat test after 1 week showed 24.6mg/dl. ECG showed incomplete left bundle branch block. Echocardiography was normal.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31311228	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311228	stroke
International journal of molecular sciences	Acid- and Volume-Sensitive Chloride Currents in Microglial Cells.	Many cell types express an acid-sensitive outwardly rectifying (ASOR) anion current of an unknown function. We characterized such a current in BV-2 microglial cells and then studied its interrelation with the volume-sensitive outwardly rectifying (VSOR) Cl	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311135	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311135	stroke
Cerebrovascular diseases (Basel, Switzerland)	The Impact of Pre- and Post-Stroke Statin Use on Stroke Severity and Long-Term Outcomes: A Population-Based Cohort Study.	Statins play a significant role in improving the survival rates after a stroke. Adherence to the National Guidelines that promote statin treatment, primary and secondary prevention of stroke should be monitored and a focus for quality improvement programs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311007	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311007	stroke
Breast (Edinburgh, Scotland)	Bisphosphonate use and incident cardiovascular events among older breast cancer survivors.	Bisphosphonate use is associated with lower incidence of CVD events among older early-stage breast cancer survivors. Future studies should prospectively evaluate whether bisphosphonate use can decrease CVD incidence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310951	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310951	stroke
Clinical neurology and neurosurgery	Effect of morning blood pressure Peak on early progressive ischemic stroke: A prospective clinical study.	Elevated systolic MBPP might be an independent risk factor for EPIS, and play a more obvious effect on EPIS manifesting in the morning especially.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310922	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310922	stroke
Clinical neurology and neurosurgery	Influence of nurse's involvement on practices during end-of-life decisions within stroke units.	The involvement of nurses during end-of-life decisions for patients with acute stroke in stroke units seemed to influence neurologists' intensivist practices and behaviors. Nurses supported the physicians' decisions related to forgoing life sustaining treatment for patients with acute stroke and may positively impact on the family's choice to participate in end-of-life decisions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310921	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310921	stroke
Journal of controlled release : official journal of the Controlled Release Society	In vivo ultrasound-activated delivery of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator from the cavity of sub-micrometric capsules.	External stimuli such as light, magnetic fields or ultrasounds allow for controlled drug release from nanocarriers with spatiotemporal resolution. Such tetherless approaches may become a straightforward solution to overcome the specificity problems typically associated with nanomedicines. Most of current nanomedicines suffer of very low specificity in vivo, thus rendering efficient targeted delivery among the most wanted breakthroughs in the fields of nanotechnology and medicine. Here we present a sonosensitive, sub-micrometric layer-by-layer capsule system for ultrasound-controlled delivery of macromolecules in vivo. As a proof of concept, the serine protease recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA), a thrombolytic drug widely employed for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke and other thromboembolic pathologies, is used as encapsulated active compound. The activity of encapsulated rtPA and its ultrasound-induced delivery from the cavity of the capsules are demonstrated. We show, first, that rtPA encapsulation prevents its endogenous biological inactivation and do not interfere with the thrombolytic activity of the drug. Second, upon ultrasound application, delivery of rtPA promotes breakdown of blood clots in vitro. Finally, the ultrasound-triggered in vivo delivery of rtPA from capsules intravenously administrated in mice is demonstrated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310784	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310784	stroke
Applied physiology, nutrition, and metabolism = Physiologie appliquee, nutrition et metabolisme	Early life undernutrition reduces maximum treadmill running capacity in adulthood in mice.	Gestational and Postnatal undernourishment impairs exercise capacity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31310724	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310724	stroke
Journal of the American Heart Association	Non-Vitamin K Antagonist Oral Anticoagulants Versus Warfarin in Patients With Cancer and Atrial Fibrillation: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	Background Several studies have investigated the effect of non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) in atrial fibrillation (AF) patients with cancer, but the results remain controversial. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis to compare the efficacy and safety of NOACs versus warfarin in this population. Methods and Results We systematically searched the PubMed and Embase databases until February 16, 2019 for studies comparing the effect of NOACs with warfarin in AF patients with cancer. Risk ratios (RRs) with 95% CIs were extracted and pooled by a random-effects model. Five studies involving 8908 NOACs and 12 440 warfarin users were included. There were no significant associations between cancer status and risks of stroke or systemic embolism, major bleeding, or death in AF patients. Compared with warfarin, NOACs were associated with decreased risks of stroke or systemic embolism (RR, 0.52; 95% CI, 0.28-0.99), venous thromboembolism (RR, 0.37, 95% CI, 0.22-0.63), and intracranial or gastrointestinal bleeding (RR, 0.65; 95% CI, 0.42-0.98) and with borderline significant reductions in ischemic stroke (RR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.40-1.00) and major bleeding (RR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.53-1.00). In addition, risks of efficacy and safety outcomes of NOACs versus warfarin were similar between AF patients with and without cancer. Conclusions In patients with AF and cancer, compared with warfarin, NOACs had lower or similar rates of thromboembolic and bleeding events and posed a reduced risk of venous thromboembolism.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310583	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310583	stroke
Journal of the American Heart Association	Association Between Long-Term Exposure to Wind Turbine Noise and the Risk of Stroke: Data From the Danish Nurse Cohort.	Background Epidemiological studies suggest that road traffic noise increases the risk of stroke. Similar effects may be expected from wind turbine noise (WTN) exposure, but epidemiological evidence is lacking. The present study investigated the association between long-term exposure to WTN and the risk for stroke. Methods and Results First-ever stroke in 28 731 female nurses in the Danish Nurse Cohort was identified in the Danish National Patient register until the end of 2013. WTN, traffic noise, and air pollution exposures were estimated for all historic and present residential addresses between 1982 and 2013. Time-varying Cox proportional hazard regression was used to examine the associations between the 11-, 5-, and 1-year rolling means of WTN levels and stroke incidence. Of 23 912 nurses free of stroke at the cohort baseline, 1097 nurses developed stroke by the end of follow-up. At the cohort baseline, 10.3% of nurses were exposed to WTN (≥1 turbine within a 6000-meter radius of the residence) and 13.3% in 2013. Mean baseline residential noise levels among exposed nurses were 26.3 dB(A). No association between long-term WTN exposure and stroke incidence was found. The adjusted hazard ratios and 95% CIs for the 11-, 5-, and 1-year running mean residential WTN exposures preceding stroke diagnosis, comparing nurses with residential WTN levels above and below 20 dB(A) were 1.09 (0.90-1.31), 1.08 (0.89-1.31) and 1.08 (0.89-1.32), respectively. Conclusions This comprehensive cohort study lends no support to an association between long-term WTN exposure and stroke risk.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310571	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310571	stroke
Journal of the American Heart Association	Safety and Effectiveness of Contemporary P2Y	Background Prior reports indicate that the effect of P2Y	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310570	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310570	stroke
Brazilian journal of cardiovascular surgery	Left Ventricular Reconstruction Surgery in Candidates for Heart Transplantation.	Surgical treatment of left ventricular reconstruction in candidates for heart transplantation is effective, efficient, and safe, providing adequate survival.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31310463	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310463	stroke
JAMA	Association Between Time to Treatment With Endovascular Reperfusion Therapy and Outcomes in Patients With Acute Ischemic Stroke Treated in Clinical Practice.	Among patients with AIS due to large vessel occlusion treated in routine clinical practice, shorter time to endovascular-reperfusion therapy was significantly associated with better outcomes. These findings support efforts to reduce time to hospital and endovascular treatment in patients with stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310296	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310296	stroke
JAMA	Endovascular Therapy for Acute Ischemic Stroke Treated in Clinical Practice.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310280	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310280	stroke
Journal of proteome research	Sphingolipidomics investigation of the temporal dynamics after ischemic brain injury.	Sphingolipids (SPL) have been proposed as a potential therapeutic target for strokes, but no reports have ever profiled the changes of the entire range of SPLs after stroke. This study applied sphingolipidomic methods to investigate the temporal and individual changes in the sphingolipidome including the effect of atorvastatin after ischemic brain injury. We conducted sphingolipidomic profiling of mouse brain tissue by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry at 3 hour (hr) and 24 hr after 1 hr of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), and SPL levels were compared with those of the Sham control group. At 3 hr post MCAO, ceramides (Cers) exhibited an increase in levels of long-chain Cers but a decrease in very-long-chain Cers. Moreover, sphingosine, the precursor of sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) decreased and S1P increased at 3 hr after MCAO. In contrast to 3 hr, both long-chain and very-long-chain Cers showed an increased trend at 24 hr post MCAO. Most important, the administration of atorvastatin improved the neurological function of the mice and significantly reversed the SPL changes resulting from the ischemic injury. Furthermore, we used plasma samples from non-stroke control and stroke patients at time points of 72 hr after stroke, and found a similar trend of Cers as in the MCAO model. This study successfully elucidated the overall effect of ischemic injury on SPL metabolism with and without atorvastatin treatment. The network of SPL components that change upon ischemic damage may provide novel therapeutic targets for ischemic stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310127	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310127	stroke
Revista de neurologia	[Neurological complications associated with dengue virus infection].	Introduccion. El dengue es una infeccion arboviral causada por el virus del dengue. Se revisan las complicaciones neurologicas asociadas a dicha infeccion. Desarrollo. El caracter neurotropo del virus del dengue se ha confirmado en estudios epidemiologicos, series de casos y estudios histopatologicos. El rango de complicaciones neurologicas es del 5,6-14,6%, y son mas frecuentes en los serotipos 1 y 3. La encefalopatia es el sindrome neurologico mas comun (0,5-6%); su prevalencia es mayor en los niños y los adolescentes. La deteccion del antigeno viral en el tejido cerebral y la presencia de pleocitosis o ARN en el liquido cefalorraquideo son evidencia del caracter neurotropo del virus del dengue, que se manifiesta en forma de encefalitis. Los sindromes neurologicos durante la fase de convalecencia (encefalomielitis aguda diseminada, cerebelitis, opsoclonia-mioclonia, mononeuritis, polirradiculoneuritis y plexitis) parecen ser inmunomediados. La mielitis puede suceder durante la infeccion aguda por el virus del dengue y por un mecanismo inmunomediado en la fase de convalecencia. Mialgias, miositis, rabdomiolisis y paralisis hipopotasemica son ejemplos de disfuncion muscular asociada al virus del dengue. La incidencia de ictus es del 0,26%, y puede ser isquemico o hemorragico. Las complicaciones oftalmologicas incluyen maculopatia, hemorragia retiniana, neuropatia optica y vitritis. Conclusiones. El espectro de complicaciones neurologicas por el virus del dengue es amplio. No existen datos fiables sobre su incidencia real porque la mayor parte de los estudios publicados son series o casos aislados.	2019	spa	Review	Spain	31310001	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310001	stroke
Revista de neurologia	[Paradoxical arterial gas embolism following a direct incisive injury to the skull].	Introduccion. El embolismo arterial gaseoso se define como la presencia de aire en la circulacion arterial. Se trata de una causa extremadamente rara de ictus que se ha descrito en multitud de escenarios clinicos, generalmente relacionados con procesos yatrogenos. Se aporta un caso clinico en el que el embolismo arterial gaseoso sucedio tras un traumatismo craneoencefalico, y se revisan los aspectos mas relevantes del diagnostico y la etiopatogenia. Caso clinico. Mujer de 52 años que presentaba herida incisa craneofacial tras una agresion con un hacha. La tomografia computarizada inicial objetivo fractura en los arcos cigomatico, esfenoidal y maxilar izquierdos, asi como neumoencefalo en los senos cavernosos y el canal carotideo derecho. Una hora mas tarde, la paciente mostro un deficit neurologico hemisferico derecho, por lo que se solicito de forma urgente una nueva tomografia computarizada craneal con estudio vascular multimodal, que objetivo la movilizacion del neumoencefalo y descarto una oclusion arterial de gran vaso. Un estudio de shunt mediante Doppler transcraneal y ecocardiografia comprobo la presencia de un foramen oval permeable como causa de comunicacion arteriovenosa que justificaba un embolismo arterial gaseoso. La tomografia computarizada de control a las 48 horas confirmo la aparicion de una lesion isquemica parietal derecha. Conclusion. En este caso queda reflejada la presencia simultanea de aire en la circulacion cerebral arterial y venosa y la comunicacion periferica a traves de un foramen oval permeable. Este mecanismo de produccion esta escasamente documentado en la bibliografia.	2019	spa	English Abstract	Spain	31310000	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310000	stroke
Journal of child neurology	Acute Pontine Ischemic Stroke in a Healthy Child With Intracranial Vasculopathy.	Here we report the case of a previously healthy 8-year-old boy who presented with altered mental status, right facial droop and right-sided hemiplegia the day after playing in an inflatable bouncer. No head trauma was reported by the patient nor witnessed by the parents. Urgent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated acute ischemic infarction in the left pons; computed tomographic angiography excluded arterial dissection but identified a small hyperdense filling defect in the basilar artery, later confirmed to be a calcification at the origin of a perforating artery. Pediatric National Institutes of Health (PedNIH) Stroke Scale score was 15. Infectious, inflammatory, hypercoagulable and additional vascular causes were excluded. Although the cause of the calcification remains obscure, we speculate that, similarly to mineralizing microangiopathy, a minor trauma led to stroke in this child. To our knowledge, mineralizing microangiopathy, the well-described entity affecting perforating arteries of the anterior circulation in young children leading to basal ganglia stroke following minor head traumas has not been described in the posterior circulation or in previously healthy school-age children.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309852	stroke
Brain injury	Quantification of energy expenditure during daily living activities after stroke by multi-sensor.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309843	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309843	stroke
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Outcome in Survivors of Middle Cerebral Artery Territory Ischemic Stroke: Can it be predicted?	Our findings show that disability assessment late in the first week after onset of stroke using NIHSS accurately forecast outcome at one month after onset of stroke. The MMSE too is not expected to change at 1 month. Those with aphasia are expected to have greater disability. Based on or study we recommend that stroke patients should be assessed with NIHSS and MMSE before discharge, to explain the prognosis of the patient. Also more intense counselling on controlling blood pressure and diabetes as well as abstinence from smoking should be undertaken routinely.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309796	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309796	stroke
Journal of thrombosis and haemostasis : JTH	Arterial and venous thrombosis by high platelet count and high hematocrit: 108,521 individuals from the Copenhagen General Population Study.	Multivariable adjusted hazard ratios for individuals with platelet counts in the top 5 percentiles (>398 x 10	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309714	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309714	stroke
Internal and emergency medicine	The effect of management models on thromboembolic and bleeding rates in anticoagulated patients: an ecological study.	The primary study objective is to compare the outcomes of patients taking oral anticoagulant medications in two distinct populations treated according to different management models (comprehensive vs. usual care). (Design: regional prospective cohort study; setting: hospital admission data from two regions). Eligible partecipants were patients taking oral anticoagulant drugs (vitamin K antagonist or direct oral anticoagulants), residents in the Vicenza and Cremona districts from February 1st, 2016 to June 30th, 2017. Patients were identified by accessing the administrative databases of patient drug prescriptions. The primary study outcome was admission to the Emergency Department for stroke, systemic arterial embolism, recurrence of venous thromboembolism or major bleeding. The study evaluated outcomes in 14,226 patients taking oral anticoagulants, of whom 6725 being followed in Cremona with a comprehensive management model. There were 19 and 45 thromboembolic events over 6205 and 6530 patient-years in the Cremona and Vicenza cohort, respectively (IRR 0.44, 95% CI 0.24-0.77). The reduction of events in the Cremona cohort was almost entirely explained by a decrease of events in patients taking VKA (IRR 0.41, 95% CI 0.20-0.78) but not DOACs (IRR 1.08, 95% CI 0.25-5.24). The rate of major bleeding was non-significantly higher in Cremona than in Vicenza (IRI 1.32; 95% CI 0.74-2.40). Across the two cohorts, the risk of bleeding was lower in patients being treated with DOACs rather than warfarin (10/4574 vs. 42/8161 event/person-years, respectively, IRR 0.42 95% CI 0.19-0.86). We conclude that a comprehensive management model providing centralized dose prescription and follow-up may significantly reduce the rate of thromboembolic complications, without substantially increasing the number of bleeding complications. Patients treated with direct oral anticoagulants appear to have a rate of thromboembolic complications comparable to VKA patients under the best management model, with a reduction of major bleeding.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31309520	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309520	stroke
Inflammopharmacology	Role of flavonoids in thrombotic, cardiovascular, and inflammatory diseases.	The failure of mechanisms of natural anti-coagulation either due to genetic impairment or due to severe external injuries may result in a condition called thrombosis. This is believed to be the primary cause for a variety of life-threatening conditions such as: heart attack, stroke, pulmonary embolism, thrombophlebitis, and deep venous thrombosis (DVT). The growing number of these incidents requires an alternative anti-coagulant or anti-thrombotic agent that has minimal side effects and improved efficiency. For decades, plant polyphenols, especially flavonoids, were known for their vital role in preventing various diseases such as cancer. Mitigating excessive oxidative stress caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS) with anti-oxidant-rich flavonoids may reduce the risk of hyper-activation of platelets, cardiovascular diseases (CVD), pain, and thrombosis. Furthermore, flavonoids may mitigate endothelial dysfunction (ED), which generally correlates to the development of coronary artery and vascular diseases. Flavonoids also reduce the risk of atherosclerosis and atherothrombotic disease by inhibiting excessive tissue factor (TF) availability in the endothelium. Although the role of flavonoids in CVD is widely discussed, to the best of our knowledge, their role as anti-thrombotic lead has not been discussed. This review aims to focus on the biological uses of dietary flavonoids and their role in the treatment of various coagulation disorders, and may provide some potential lead to the drug discovery process in this area.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31309484	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309484	stroke
Translational stroke research	Adult Neurogenesis in the Subventricular Zone and Its Regulation After Ischemic Stroke: Implications for Therapeutic Approaches.	Adult neurogenesis in the subventricular zone is a topic of intense research, since it has vast implications for the fundamental understanding of the neurobiology of the brain and its potential to being harnessed for therapy in various neurological disorders. Investigation of adult neurogenesis has been complicated by the difficulties with characterization of neural stem cells in vivo. However, recent single-cell transcriptomic studies provide more detailed information on marker expression in neural stem cells and their neuronal lineage, which hopefully will result in a more unified discussion. Regulation of the multiple biological steps in adult neurogenesis comprises intrinsic mechanisms as well as extrinsic factors which together orchestrate the process. In this review, we describe the regulating factors and their cellular sources in the physiological condition and provide an overview of the regulating factors mediating stroke-induced stimulation of neurogenesis in the subventricular zone. While there is ongoing debate about the longevity of active post-natal neurogenesis in humans, the subventricular zone has the capacity to upregulate neurogenesis in response to ischemic stroke. Though, the stroke-induced neurogenesis in humans does not seem to translate into adequate functional recovery, which opens discussion about potential treatment strategies to harness this neuroregenerative response. Various therapeutic approaches are explored in preclinical and clinical studies to target endogenous neurogenesis of which some are discussed in this review.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31309427	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309427	stroke
Neuroscience bulletin	Hes1 Knockdown Exacerbates Ischemic Stroke Following tMCAO by Increasing ER Stress-Dependent Apoptosis via the PERK/eIF2α/ATF4/CHOP Signaling Pathway.	Apoptosis induced by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress plays a crucial role in mediating brain damage after ischemic stroke. Recently, Hes1 (hairy and enhancer of split 1) has been implicated in the regulation of ER stress, but whether it plays a functional role after ischemic stroke and the underlying mechanism remain unclear. In this study, using a mouse model of ischemic stroke via transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO), we found that Hes1 was induced following brain injury, and that siRNA-mediated knockdown of Hes1 increased the cerebral infarction and worsened the neurological outcome, suggesting that Hes1 knockdown exacerbates ischemic stroke. In addition, mechanistically, Hes1 knockdown promoted apoptosis and activated the PERK/eIF2α/ATF4/CHOP signaling pathway after tMCAO. These results suggest that Hes1 knockdown promotes ER stress-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, inhibition of PERK with the specific inhibitor GSK2606414 markedly attenuated the Hes1 knockdown-induced apoptosis and the increased cerebral infarction as well as the worsened neurological outcome following tMCAO, implying that the protection of Hes1 against ischemic stroke is associated with the amelioration of ER stress via modulating the PERK/eIF2α/ATF4/CHOP signaling pathway. Taken together, these results unveil the detrimental role of Hes1 knockdown after ischemic stroke and further relate it to the regulation of ER stress-induced apoptosis, thus highlighting the importance of targeting ER stress in the treatment of ischemic stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Singapore	31309426	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309426	stroke
Quality of life research : an international journal of quality of life aspects of treatment, care and rehabilitation	Disabled life expectancy with and without stroke: a 10-year Japanese prospective cohort study.	Older adults who have experienced a stroke could experience a shorter total life expectancy, shorter disability-free life expectancy, and longer disabled life expectancy than those who have not experienced a stroke. These results can inform policymakers and rehabilitation practitioners on stroke survivor long-term care needs and their post-stroke health status.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31309398	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309398	stroke
Annals of biomedical engineering	Evaluation of Local Tissue Reaction After the Application of a 3D Printed Novel Holdfast Device for Left Atrial Appendage Exclusion.	The left atrial appendage (LAA) is a small, finger-like extension of the left atrium and its exclusion is used as a treatment strategy to prevent ischemic stroke. Existing holdfast devices may damage the tissue, are unisized and not adjustable. A novel holdfast device for LAA exclusion devoid of these shortcomings was designed and 3D-printed using the Selective Laser Sintering (SLS) technology with polyamide powder and tested it on animal model. We selected the SLS 3D printing technology due to its wid14e availability and low production costs which could provide on-site 3D printing for specific patient. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biocompatibility of the reported holdfast device and compare the histological results obtained for local tissue reactions to those obtained for an established grafting material. Thirty swine subdivided into two groups were examined. The LAA exclusion device was implanted and was either coated with a polyester vascular implant or not coated at all and the histological response to the device's presence was evaluated which is a standard approach to test the device biocompatibility. In all cases, complete occlusion was seen without any pathological findings during the incubation time. In both groups, the surface of the atrium under a holdfast device was smooth and shiny and had no clots. The foreign body reaction of the LAA holdfast device made of polyamide powder was insignificantly lower compared to the polyester graft. Thus, it fulfils the parameters of biocompatibility at the highest degree, and makes it suitable material for the manufacturing of LAA holdfast devices.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309369	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309369	stroke
Acta neurochirurgica	Early and midterm results of treatment of giant internal carotid artery paraclinoid aneurysms with trapping and flow diverters.	FDD deployment for giant paraclinoid aneurysms results in comparable angiographic and clinical outcomes to aneurysm trapping. Despite implementation of modern endovascular treatment methods, aneurysm trapping remains a valuable treatment option in carefully selected patients with giant paraclinoid aneurysms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Austria	31309305	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309305	stroke
Pediatric cardiology	Oral Triiodothyronine Supplementation Decreases Low Cardiac Output Syndrome After Pediatric Cardiac Surgery.	The oral triiodothyronine for infants and children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (OTICC) trial showed that Triiodothyronine (T3) supplementation improved hemodynamic and clinical outcome parameters. We tested the validity of low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS), derived using clinical parameters and laboratory data, by comparing the LCOS diagnosis with objective parameters commonly measured in a cardiac intensive care unit (CCU) setting. OTICC, a randomized, placebo-controlled trial included children younger than 3 years with an Aristotle score between 6 and 9. We used the existing trial data set to compare the LCOS diagnosis with echocardiographic hemodynamic parameters. Additionally, we determined if LCOS, prospectively assigned during a clinical trial, served as an early predictor of clinical outcomes. All LCOS subjects at 6 and 12 h after cross-clamp release later showed significantly lower pulse pressure, stroke volume and cardiac output, and higher systemic vascular resistance. These LCOS patients also had significantly longer time to extubation (TTE) and higher mortality rate. LCOS incidence was significantly lower in the T3 treatment group [n = 86 vs. 66, respectively, p < 0.001; OR (95% CI) 0.43 (0.36-0.52)] particularly at 6 h. Also, LCOS patients in the placebo group had significantly lower FT3 serum levels over time. These analyses confirm that early clinically defined LCOS successfully predicts cardiac dysfunction determined later by objective hemodynamic echocardiographic parameters. Furthermore, early LCOS significantly impacts TTE and mortality. Finally, the data support prior clinical trial data, showing that oral T3 supplementation decreases early LCOS in concordance with reducing TTE.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309235	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309235	stroke
Cureus	Frequency of Medication Non-compliance in Hypertensive Patients Presenting with Stroke: A Case-control Study.	Introduction Medication compliance (MC) is essential for optimum control and delaying disease progression and complications in chronic illnesses. Patients with hypertension have been repeatedly studied for their pattern of MC in the literature. However, whether or not lack of MC is an issue grave enough to cause medical complications of hypertension is still not clear. The aim of this study was to evaluate if the lack of MC is related to hypertension-related stroke. Methods In this case-control, observational study, 100 hypertensive patients admitted with hypertensive stroke were included. These cases were compared with 200 hypertensive patients without any major hypertensive complication recruited from outpatient clinics. Medication compliance was calculated using the Morisky Medication Adherence Scale (MMAS). Data was entered and analysed using SPSS v. 22.0. Results High compliance patients were more in the control group than the cases (34.5% vs. 27%), similar was with medium (41.5% vs. 30%). and low compliance patients (43% vs. 24%; 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309028	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309028	stroke
The South African journal of psychiatry : SAJP : the journal of the Society of Psychiatrists of South Africa	Correlates of sedentary behaviour among adolescents and adults with hazardous, harmful or dependent drinking in South Africa.	The study provides socio-demographic and health correlates of sedentary behaviour among problem drinkers. This information can guide possible future interventions in reducing sedentary behaviour among problem drinkers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308972	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308972	stroke
JRSM cardiovascular disease	Performance of EuroSCORE II and logistic EuroSCORE in Bangladeshi population undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery: A prospective cohort study.	EuroSCORE has an important role in predicting the early, as well as late, postoperative outcomes following coronary artery bypass surgery. However, the performance of EuroSCORE II is significantly better than the original logistic EuroSCORE in predicting postoperative morbidity and mortality after isolated coronary artery bypass graft surgery among Bangladeshi patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308937	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308937	stroke
Journal of vascular and interventional neurology	AQURE PASSPORT Intracranial Catheter for Mechanical Thrombectomy in Acute Ischemic Stroke Patients.	The present study demonstrates the feasibility of performing mechanical thrombectomy for intracranial arterial occlusion with a new intracranial catheter having superior performance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308871	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308871	stroke
Journal of vascular and interventional neurology	A Brief Review of Edema-Adjusted Infarct Volume Measurement Techniques for Rodent Focal Cerebral Ischemia Models with Practical Recommendations.	We recommend that Reglodi's method, that is 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308870	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308870	stroke
Journal of vascular and interventional neurology	Use of Arterial Spin-Labeling in Patients with Aneurysmal Sub-arachnoid hemorrhage.	Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) due to cerebral vasospasm following aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) has long been recognized as a major source of morbidity and mortality. Early detection of cerebral vasospasm and identification of patients who are likely to become symptomatic is crucial to guide aggressive medical and/or endovascular interventions. Magnetic resonance imaging using arterial spin-label (ASL) is a noninvasive mean for assessing cerebral blood flow and is based on direct magnetic labeling of arterial blood water protons. The diagnostic role of ASL in acute ischemic stroke, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative disorders has been explained in multiple studies but its ability to predict vasospasm in aSAH has not been published before. The purpose of this study is to highlight the diagnostic implications of different perfusion patterns of ASL in patients with aSAH which can be utilized to prevent DCI in such patients when other commonly used modalities are not available, contraindicated, or fail to detect vasospasm.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308864	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308864	stroke
Journal of geriatric cardiology : JGC	Value of a comprehensive geriatric assessment for predicting one-year outcomes in patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve implantation: results from the CGA-TAVI multicentre registry.	The MPI showed value for predicting the likelihood of death and a combination of death and/or non-fatal stroke by one year after TAVI in elderly patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31308839	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308839	stroke
Journal of geriatric cardiology : JGC	Intracoronary arterial retrograde thrombolysis with percutaneous coronary intervention: a novel use of thrombolytic to treat acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.	ICART was accurate and effective for treating intracoronary thrombi in patients with STEMI in this preliminary study. ICART was an effective, feasible, and simple approach to the management of STEMI, and no intraprocedural complications occurred in any of the patients. ICART may be a breakthrough in the treatment of acute STEMI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31308838	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308838	stroke
Therapeutics and clinical risk management	Urinary orosomucoid: a new marker of cardiovascular risk in psoriatic patients?	There seems to be a connection between urinary ORM and cardiovascular risk. U-ORM and u-ORM/u-CREAT ratio could be used as an indicator of low-grade inflammation in mild and moderate psoriasis. However, it is the 10-year follow-up of cardiovascular events that will determine the usefulness of this biomarker panel.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308681	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308681	stroke
Neuropsychiatric disease and treatment	Impact of psychiatric comorbidity on the severity, short-term functional outcome, and psychiatric complications after acute stroke.	Our data have clinical implications in that they call for identification of psychiatric premorbidity or comorbidity through careful history-taking and particularly close monitoring for psychiatric complications with respect to their potentially negative impact on outcome after stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308675	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308675	stroke
Neuropsychiatric disease and treatment	Ginaton improves neurological function in ischemic stroke rats via inducing autophagy and maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis.	Ginaton exhibited obvious neuroprotective effects in MCAO rats with initial administered 24 h after MCAO. The mechanism of Ginaton included induction of autophagy via activation of the AMPK pathway, maintenance of mitochondrial homeostasis and inhibition of apoptosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308674	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308674	stroke
Scientific reports	Establishment and evaluation of prediction model for multiple disease classification based on gut microbial data.	Diseases prediction has been performed by machine learning approaches with various biological data. One of the representative data is the gut microbial community, which interacts with the host's immune system. The abundance of a few microorganisms has been used as markers to predict diverse diseases. In this study, we hypothesized that multi-classification using machine learning approach could distinguish the gut microbiome from following six diseases: multiple sclerosis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, stroke and colorectal cancer. We used the abundance of microorganisms at five taxonomy levels as features in 696 samples collected from different studies to establish the best prediction model. We built classification models based on four multi-class classifiers and two feature selection methods including a forward selection and a backward elimination. As a result, we found that the performance of classification is improved as we use the lower taxonomy levels of features; the highest performance was observed at the genus level. Among four classifiers, LogitBoost-based prediction model outperformed other classifiers. Also, we suggested the optimal feature subsets at the genus-level obtained by backward elimination. We believe the selected feature subsets could be used as markers to distinguish various diseases simultaneously. The finding in this study suggests the potential use of selected features for the diagnosis of several diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308384	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308384	stroke
International heart journal	Real-World Relationship Between Proton Pump Inhibitors and Cerebro-Cardiovascular Outcomes Independent of Clopidogrel.	Previous studies have provided established evidence on adverse outcomes of the coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and clopidogrel, whereas cerebro-cardiovascular outcomes of PPI use in the absence of clopidogrel therapy remain controversial.In this study, we aimed to assess the association between PPIs and cerebro-cardiovascular outcomes independent of clopidogrel.Systematic searches were conducted in the Cochrane Library, PubMed, and Embase databases for all relevant studies up to August 2018. Odds ratios (ORs) with its 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were abstracted and pooled using the random-effects model.A total of 14 observational studies (13 cohort studies and 1 case-control study) were identified. Compared with non-PPI users, PPI users experienced higher risks of stroke (OR: 1.22, 95% CI: 1.08-1.36), myocardial infarction (MI; OR: 1.23, 95% CI: 1.14-1.32), cardiovascular death (OR: 1.83, 95% CI: 1.69-1.98), and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs; OR: 1.22, 95% CI: 1.05-1.40) independent of clopidogrel use, but not all-cause death (OR: 1.50, 95% CI: 0.99-2.25). In the subgroup analysis, PPI alone was associated with significant risks of new-onset MI (OR: 1.23, 95% CI: 1.13-1.35) and stroke (OR: 1.17, 95% CI: 1.05-1.30) in patients without previous MI or stoke and recurrent MI (OR: 1.24, 95% CI: 1.02-1.51) and stroke (OR: 1.36, 95% CI: 1.19-1.55) risks in patients with a previous MI.Based on current publications, PPI use seems to be associated with increased risks of stroke, MI, cardiovascular death, and MACEs independent of clopidogrel. Greater caution should be therefore exercised while considering its clinical benefits and further investigate any causal relationships.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31308328	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308328	stroke
International heart journal	Adverse Clinical Events during Long-Term Follow-Up After Catheter Ablation of Atrial Fibrillation.	Pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) of atrial fibrillation (AF) can reduce the AF burden and, potentially, reduce the long-term risk of strokes and death. However, it remains unclear whether anticoagulants can be stopped after PVI because of post-ablation AF recurrence in some patients. This study aimed to investigate the discontinuation rate of anticoagulants and long-term incidence of strokes after PVI.We enrolled 512 consecutive Japanese patients with AF (mean age, 63.4 ± 10.4 years; 123 women; 234 with non-paroxysmal AF; CHADS2 score/CHA2DS2-VASC score, 1.32 ± 1.12/2.21 ± 1.54) who underwent PVI between 2012 and 2015. During a 28.0 ± 17.1 -month follow-up, anticoagulants were terminated in 230 (44.9%) of the 512 patients, AF recurred in 200 (39.1%), and 10 (1.95%) suffered from a stroke. Death occurred in 5 (0.98%) patients. Although the incidence of strokes, by a Kaplan-Meier analysis, was similar, the incidence of death was lower (Hazard ratio 0.37, 95% confidence interval 0.12-0.93, P = 0.041) in the AF ablation group than the control group without ablation after 1:1 propensity score matching (the control data was derived from 2,986 patients in the SAKURA AF Registry, a large-cohort AF registry).Anticoagulants were discontinued in nearly half the patients who underwent AF ablation; of these, 39.1% experienced AF recurrences, 1.95% suffered from strokes, and 0.98% died, but the risk of death after AF ablation appeared to be lower than that in a propensity score-matched control group without ablation during long-term follow-up.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31308323	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308323	stroke
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Defining the Kv2.1-syntaxin molecular interaction identifies a first-in-class small molecule neuroprotectant.	The neuronal cell death-promoting loss of cytoplasmic K	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308225	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308225	stroke
Journal of neurointerventional surgery	Acute thromboses and occlusions of dual layer carotid stents in endovascular treatment of tandem occlusions.	Acute thrombosis or occlusion of CASPER stents in thrombectomy patients receiving emergent extracranial internal carotid artery stenting for tandem occlusions were observed more often during the procedure than within 72 hours of follow-up, were less frequent then previously reported, and showed no impact on early neurological outcome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308199	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308199	stroke
Journal of neurointerventional surgery	Prospective study on embolization of intracranial aneurysms with the pipeline device: the PREMIER study 1 year results.	NCT02186561.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308197	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308197	stroke
BMJ case reports	An unsuspected intracranial foreign body on the acute medical unit.	A 54-year-old man was referred to the acute medical unit with a suspected stroke after presenting to his general practitioner with altered speech, left sided facial droop and confusion. The patient had a new right sided swelling on the lateral aspect of his head but did not report any history of trauma. Imaging revealed a 9.2 cm nail entering via the right parietal bone with associated acute haemorrhage. After further discussion with the patient, he disclosed a suicide attempt with a nail gun 5 days prior to presentation. The nail was successfully removed by the neurosurgical team and the patient received rehabilitation and psychiatric assessment on the brain injury unit before going home.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308190	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308190	stroke
Neurology	White matter hyperintensity load on stroke recurrence and mortality at 1 year after ischemic stroke.	There is an association between WMH volume load and stroke recurrence, and this association is stronger for hemorrhagic than for ischemic stroke, although the absolute risk of ischemic recurrence remains higher. These data should be helpful to practitioners seeking to find the optimal preventive/treatment regimen for poststroke patients and to individualize risk-benefit ratios.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308151	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308151	stroke
Heart (British Cardiac Society)	Cardiomyopathy and pregnancy.	Cardiomyopathy is a group of disorders in which the heart muscle is structurally and functionally abnormal in the absence of other diseases that could cause observed myocardial abnormality. The most common cardiomyopathies are hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathy. Rare types are arrhythmogenic right ventricular, restrictive, Takotsubo and left ventricular non-compaction cardiomyopathies. This review of cardiomyopathies in pregnancy shows that peripartum cardiomyopathy is the most common cardiomyopathy in pregnancy. Peripartum cardiomyopathy develops most frequently in the month before or after partum, whereas dilated cardiomyopathy often is known already or develops in the second trimester. Mortality in peripartum cardiomyopathy varies from <2% to 50%. Few reports on dilated cardiomyopathy and pregnancy exist, with only a limited number of patients. Ventricular arrhythmias, heart failure, stroke and death are found in 39%-60% of high-risk patients. However, patients with modest left ventricular dysfunction and good functional class tolerated pregnancy well. Previous studies on >700 pregnancies in 500 women with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy showed that prognosis was generally good, even though three deaths were reported in high-risk patients. Complications include different types of supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias, heart failure and ischaemic stroke. Recent studies on 200 pregnancies in 100 women with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy have reported symptoms, including heart failure in 18%-33% of pregnancies. Ventricular tachycardia was found in 0%-33% of patients and syncope in one patient. Information on rare cardiomyopathies is sparse and only presented in case reports. Close monitoring by multidisciplinary teams in referral centres that counsel patients before conception and follow them throughout gestation is recommended.	2019	eng	Review	England	31308064	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308064	stroke
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Randomized Controlled Trial of Gait Training Using Gait Exercise Assist Robot (GEAR) in Stroke Patients with Hemiplegia.	Gait training using GEAR for 4 weeks improved walking ability of subacute stroke patients. GEAR contributes to early improvement of walking ability probably by the knee flexion assist during swing phase on the paralyzed side thereby increasing the volume of training, and by the finely adjustable stance/swing assist mechanism for the paralyzed limb which optimizes the training difficulty level.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307899	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307899	stroke
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Association between Bilateral Infarcts Pattern and Detection of Occult Atrial Fibrillation in Embolic Stroke of Undetermined Source (ESUS) Patients with Insertable Cardiac Monitor (ICM).	Our study found that a neuroimaging profile of bilateral infarcts was associated with AF detection using insertable cardiac monitor in ESUS patients. Larger prospective studies are needed to validate our findings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307898	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307898	stroke
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Integration of Real-Time Electronic Health Records and Wireless Technology in a Mobile Stroke Unit.	These technologies will serve as a blueprint for development of similar units elsewhere, and as a framework for improvement in this technology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307897	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307897	stroke
International journal of cardiology	Residual vegetation after treatment for left-sided infective endocarditis and subsequent risk of stroke and recurrence of endocarditis.	Patients surviving IE with a residual vegetation > 5 mm had an increased associated risk of stroke compared with patients without residual vegetation. These findings provide new perspectives on a patient group sparsely describe, suggesting a potential benefit of therapy among patients surviving IE with a residual vegetation > 5 mm.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307845	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307845	stroke
Food and chemical toxicology : an international journal published for the British Industrial Biological Research Association	Corrigendum to "Antidepressive effects of a chemically characterized maqui berry extract (Aristotelia chilensis (molina) stuntz) in a mouse model of Post-stroke depression" [Food Chem. Toxicol. 129 (2019) 434-443].	 	2019	eng	Published Erratum	England	31307821	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307821	stroke
Soins. Gerontologie	[Stroke, follow-up and rehabilitation care].	Strokes are a common pathology in the elderly. Access to rehabilitation care improves the functional prognosis. Where should these elderly brain-injured patients be referred to after the acute phase and what follow-up and rehabilitation care is available to them?	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31307686	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307686	stroke
Soins. Gerontologie	[Strokes and Giant cell arteritis: imaging characteristics].	Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is associated with an increased risk of cardio- or cerebro-vascular death. The stroke rate in patients with GCA varies between 2.7 and 7.4%. The etiological diagnosis may be challenging between atherosclerotic stroke and stroke related to GCA. Case of an old woman who had ischemic stroke and concomitant diagnosis of GCA and brain imaging characteristics.	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31307684	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307684	stroke
Soins. Gerontologie	[Differential diagnosis of strokes, the traps to avoid].	Strokes are a significant issue in geriatric medicine as more than half occur in patients over the age of 75. However, not all the symptoms of a focal neurological deficit in the elderly are indicative of a stroke. There are a number of differential diagnoses and only a detailed examination of the patient can enable an accurate diagnosis to be established. However, in no case must this delay the urgent treatment of the patient suspected of having a stroke.	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31307683	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307683	stroke
Soins. Gerontologie	[Haemorrhagic strokes, current understanding].	Haemorrhagic strokes represent 20% of strokes with a very high mortality rate. Faced with a sudden neurological deficit, the diagnosis must be systematically evoked. The leading aetiology of these strokes is chronic arterial hypertension, and blood pressure control is the best form of prevention. Treatment of this pathology is multifactorial.	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31307682	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307682	stroke
Handbook of clinical neurology	Clinical neurophysiology of stroke.	Stroke constitutes the third most common cause of death and the leading cause of acquired neurologic handicap. During ischemic stroke, very early after the onset of the focal perfusion deficit, excitotoxicity triggers a number of events that can further contribute to tissue death. Such events include peri-infarct depolarizations and spreading depolarizations (SDs) within the ischemic penumbra. SDs spread slowly through continuous gray matter at a typical velocity of 2-5mm/min. SDs exacerbate neuronal injury through prolonged ionic breakdown and SD-related hypoperfusion (spreading ischemia). Scalp EEG alone is not yet sufficient to reliably diagnose SDs. Hyperexcitability occurs in parallel, both in the acute and chronic phases of stroke. Stroke is a common cause of new-onset epileptic seizures after middle age and is the leading cause of symptomatic epilepsy in adults. The last part of this chapter is dedicated to noninvasive neurophysiologic techniques that can be used to promote stroke rehabilitation. These techniques mainly include repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation and tDCS. These approaches are based on the concept of interhemispheric rivalry and aim at modulating the imbalance of cortical activities between both hemispheres resulting from stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307595	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307595	stroke
Trials	Impact of PReOperative Midazolam on OuTcome of Elderly patients (I-PROMOTE): study protocol for a multicentre randomised controlled trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03052660 . Registered on 14 February 2017. EudraCT 2016-004555-79 .	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307505	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307505	stroke
Cardiovascular diabetology	GLP-1 secretion in acute ischemic stroke: association with functional outcome and comparison with healthy individuals.	Endogenous GLP-1 levels in patients that recently suffered an ischemic stroke are higher than in healthy controls and remained unchanged at the 3 months follow-up, possibly indicating an elevation of the levels of GLP-1 already pre-stroke. However, no association between endogenous GLP-1 and functional outcome of stroke 3 months post stroke was found.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307484	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307484	stroke
BMC health services research	PRIMEtime CE: a multistate life table model for estimating the cost-effectiveness of interventions affecting diet and physical activity.	This paper describes PRIMEtime CE and highlights its main strengths and limitations. The model can be used to compare any number of public policies affecting diet and physical activity, allowing decision makers to understand how they can maximise population health with limited financial resources.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307442	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307442	stroke
BMC cancer	Intra-arterial chemotherapy as primary or secondary treatment for infants diagnosed with advanced retinoblastoma before 3 months of age.	Our findings suggest that IAC, whether primary or secondary, is effective and fairly safe for the management of advanced retinoblastoma in infants aged < 3 months. However, adverse events related to intra-arterial injection and the visual outcomes cannot be neglected and require further investigation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307410	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307410	stroke
BMC anesthesiology	Different dose regimes and administration methods of tranexamic acid in cardiac surgery: a meta-analysis of randomized trials.	TXA was effective in reducing transfusion requirement in all kinds of cardiac surgeries. Low-dose intravenous infusion was the most preferable delivery method which was as effective as high-dose regimen in reducing transfusion rate without increasing the risk of seizure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307381	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307381	stroke
World journal for pediatric & congenital heart surgery	Right Ventricular Dominance Is Associated With Inferior Outcomes After the Extracardiac Fontan.	In this contemporary, single-center cohort of EC Fontan patients, RVD was associated with inferior outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307314	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307314	stroke
Journal of cerebral blood flow and metabolism : official journal of the International Society of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism	The functional role of hemojuvelin in acute ischemic stroke.	Our study aimed to establish the role of hemojuvelin (HJV) in acute ischemic stroke (AIS). We performed immunohistochemistry for HJV expression in human brain tissues from 10 AIS and 2 non-stroke autopsy subjects. Plasma HJV was measured in 112 AIS patients within 48 h after stroke. The results showed significantly increased HJV expression in brain tissues from AIS patients compare to non-stroke subjects. After adjusting for clinical variables, plasma levels of HJV within 48 h after stroke were an independent predictor of poor functional outcome three months post-stroke (OR:1.78, 95% CI: 1.03-3.07; 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307288	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307288	stroke
The Journal of international medical research	Stroke knowledge among middle and high school students.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307252	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307252	stroke
Clinical rehabilitation	The Stroke Stigma Scale: a reliable and valid stigma measure in patients with stroke.	The Stroke Stigma Scale is a reliable and valid measure of perceived stigma in patients with stroke, which may be useful in stigma prevention and stroke rehabilitation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307214	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307214	stroke
Clinical laboratory	Comparison of Lymphocyte Count, Neutrophil to Lymphocyte Ratio and Platelet to Lymphocyte Ratio in Predicting the Severity and the Clinical Outcomes of Acute Cerebral Infarction Patients.	As an inflammatory and immune biomarker, lymphocyte counts demonstrate similar test perfor-mance as NLR and PLR for predicting the severity and 30-day poor outcomes of ACI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31307175	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307175	stroke
Clinical laboratory	Serum miR-599 Serves as a Biomarker for Ischemic Stroke Patients.	Serum miR-599 may be used as a molecular marker in the diagnosis of ischemic stroke and may play an important role in the pathogenesis and development of ischemic stroke in cooperation with hs-CRP and MMP-9.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31307174	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307174	stroke
The Journal of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery	Results of staged repair of aortic disease in patients with Marfan syndrome.	Our strategies for staged replacement of the thoracic and thoracoabdominal aorta in patients with Marfan syndrome resulted in excellent early- and long-term outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307138	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307138	stroke
Medicine	Erratum: Risk of sudden sensorineural hearing loss in stroke patients: A 5-year nationwide investigation of 44,460 patients: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000004841.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305750	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305750	stroke
Medicine	Erratum: Inspiratory muscle training in stroke patients with congestive heart failure: A CONSORT-compliant prospective randomized single-blind controlled trial: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000004856.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305746	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305746	stroke
Medicine	Erratum: Traditional chinese patent medicine for acute ischemic stroke: an overview of systematic reviews based on the GRADE approach: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000002986.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305707	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305707	stroke
The Journal of neuroscience : the official journal of the Society for Neuroscience	Correction: Clarkson et al., "AMPA Receptor-Induced Local Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor Signaling Mediates Motor Recovery after Stroke".	[This corrects the article on p. 3766 in vol. 31, PMID: 21389231.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305597	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305597	stroke
Addiction (Abingdon, England)	Association between opioid use disorder and fractures: A population-based study.	Taiwanese patients with opioid use disorder appear to have a higher adjusted hazard ratio for fracture than Taiwanese patients without opioid use disorder.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307110	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307110	stroke
Annals of internal medicine	Benefits and Harms of Oral Anticoagulant Therapy in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.	None. (PROSPERO: CRD42017079709).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307056	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307056	stroke
Cardiology	Management of Patients with Patent Foramen Ovale and Cryptogenic Stroke: An Update.	Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a common benign finding in healthy subjects, but its prevalence is higher in patients with stroke of unclear cause (cryptogenic stroke). PFO is believed to be associated with stroke through paradoxical embolism, and certain clinical and anatomical criteria seem to increase the likelihood of a PFO to be pathological. Recent trials have shown that closure of PFO, especially if associated with an atrial septal aneurysm and/or a large interatrial shunt, may reduce the risk of recurrent stroke as compared to medical treatment. However, it remains challenging to risk stratify patients with suspected PFO-related stroke and to decide if device closure is indicated. We sought to review contemporary evidence and to conclude an evidence-based strategy to prevent recurrence of PFO-related stroke.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31307049	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307049	stroke
Physics in medicine and biology	Magnetic resonance electrical property mapping at 21.1 T: a study of conductivity and permittivity in phantoms, <i>ex vivo</i> tissue and <i>in vivo</i> ischemia.	Electrical properties (EP), namely conductivity and permittivity, can provide endogenous contrast for tissue characterization. Using electrical property tomography (EPT), maps of EP can be generated from conventional MRI data. This report investigates the feasibility and accuracy of EPT at 21.1 T for multiple RF coils and modes of operation using phantoms. Additionally, it demonstrates the EP of the &amp;lt;i&amp;gt;in vivo&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; rat brain with and without ischemia. &amp;#13; &amp;#13; Helmholtz-based EPT was implemented in its Full-form, which demands the complex &amp;lt;i&amp;gt;B&amp;lt;sub&amp;gt;1&amp;lt;/sub&amp;gt;&amp;lt;sup&amp;gt;+&amp;lt;/sup&amp;gt;&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; field, and a simplified form requiring either just the &amp;lt;i&amp;gt;B&amp;lt;sub&amp;gt;1&amp;lt;/sub&amp;gt;&amp;lt;sup&amp;gt;+&amp;lt;/sup&amp;gt;&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; field phase for conductivity or the&amp;lt;i&amp;gt; B&amp;lt;sub&amp;gt;1&amp;lt;/sub&amp;gt;&amp;lt;sup&amp;gt;+&amp;lt;/sup&amp;gt;&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; field magnitude for permittivity. Experiments where conducted at 21.1 T using birdcage and saddle coils operated in linear or quadrature transceive mode, respectively. EPT approaches were evaluated using a phantom, &amp;lt;i&amp;gt;ex&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; and &amp;lt;i&amp;gt;in vivo&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; Sprague-Dawley rats under naïve conditions and ischemic stroke via transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. &amp;#13; &amp;#13; Different conductivity reconstruction approaches applied to the phantom displayed average errors of 12-73% to the target acquired from dielectric probe measurements. Permittivity reconstructions showed higher agreement and an average 3-8% error to the target depending on reconstruction approach. Conductivity and permittivity of &amp;lt;i&amp;gt;ex&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; and &amp;lt;i&amp;gt;in vivo&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; rodent brain were measured. Elevated EP in the ischemia region correlated with the increased sodium content and the influx of water intracellularly following ischemia in the lesion were detected.&amp;#13; &amp;#13; The Full-form technique generated from the linear birdcage provided the best accuracy for EP of the phantom. Phase-based conductivity and magnitude-based permittivity mapping provided reasonable estimates but also demonstrated the limitations of Helmholtz-based EPT at 21.1 T. Permittivity reconstruction was improved significantly over lower fields, suggesting a novel metric for &amp;lt;i&amp;gt;in vivo&amp;lt;/i&amp;gt; brain studies. EPT applied to ischemic rat brain proved sensitivity to physiological changes, motivating the future application of more advanced reconstruction approaches.&amp;#13.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307020	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307020	stroke
Clinical neurology and neurosurgery	Management of tracheostomized patients after poor grade subarachnoid hemorrhage: Disease related and pulmonary risk factors for failed and delayed decannulation.	Successful decannulation is possible in the majority of sSAH patients and particularly, in all patients with WFNS grade III. WFNS grading, age, the necessity for decompressive craniectomy and pneumonia are significantly associated with the TTD. WFNS grade and pneumonia are significantly associated with DF. The mean cannulation time of sSAH patients is shorter in relation to stroke patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306892	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306892	stroke
Brain research bulletin	Engineering Biomaterial Microenvironments to Promote Myelination in the Central Nervous System.	Promoting remyelination and/or minimizing demyelination are key therapeutic strategies under investigation for diseases and injuries from multiple sclerosis (MS) to spinal cord injury, stroke, and virus-induced encephalopathy. Myelination is essential for efficacious neuronal signaling. This process is originated by oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) in the central nervous system (CNS). Resident OPCs are capable of both proliferation and differentiation, and also migration to demyelinated injury sites. OPCs can then engage with these demyelinated axons and differentiate into myelin-forming oligodendrocytes (OLs). However this process is frequently incomplete and often does not occur at all. Biomaterial strategies can now be used to guide OPC and OL development with the goal of regenerating healthy myelin sheaths in formerly damaged CNS tissue. Growth and neurotrophic factors delivered from such materials can promote proliferation of OPCs or differentiation into OLs. While cell transplantation techniques have been used to replace damaged cells in wound sites, they have also led to poor viability, uncontrollable differentiation, and poor integration into the host. Biomaterial scaffolds made from extracellular matrix (ECM) mimics that are naturally or synthetically derived can improve transplanted cell survival, support both transplanted and endogenous cell populations, and direct their fate. In particular, stiffness and degradability of these scaffolds are two parameters that can influence the fate of OPCs and OLs. The future outlook for biomaterials research includes 3D in vitro models of myelination / remyelination / demyelination to better mimic and study these processes. These models should provide simple relationships of myelination to microenvironmental biophysical and biochemical properties to inform improved therapeutic approaches.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31306690	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306690	stroke
The American journal of medicine	Outcomes in newly diagnosed atrial fibrillation and history of acute coronary syndromes: insights from GARFIELD-AF.	In GARFIELD-AF, previous acute coronary syndromes are associated with worse 2-year outcomes and a greater likelihood of under-treatment with OAC, while two-thirds of patients receive AP therapy. Major bleeding was more common with previous acute coronary syndromes, even after adjusting for all risk factors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306621	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306621	stroke
Neuropsychologia	Cerebellar contribution to vocal emotion decoding: Insights from stroke and neuroimaging.	While the role of the cerebellum in emotion recognition has been explored with facial expressions, its involvement in the auditory modality (i.e., emotional prosody) remains to be demonstrated. The present study investigated the recognition of emotional prosody in 15 patients with chronic cerebellar ischaemic stroke and 15 matched healthy controls, using a validated task, as well as clinical, motor, neuropsychological, and psychiatric assessments. We explored the cerebellar lesion-behaviour relationship using voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping. Results showed a significant difference between the stroke and healthy control groups, with patients giving erroneous ratings on the Surprise scale when they listened to fearful stimuli. Moreover, voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping revealed that these emotional misattributions correlated with lesions in right Lobules VIIb, VIII and IX. Interestingly, the posterior cerebellum has previously been found to be involved in affective processing, and Lobule VIIb in rhythm discrimination. These results point to the cerebellum's functional involvement in vocal emotion decoding.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306617	stroke
American journal of speech-language pathology	Feasibility of Automatic Speech Recognition for Providing Feedback During Tablet-Based Treatment for Apraxia of Speech Plus Aphasia.	Purpose Individuals with neurogenic speech disorders require ongoing therapeutic support to achieve functional communication goals. Alternative methods for service delivery, such as tablet-based speech therapy applications, may help bridge the gap and bring therapeutic interventions to the patient in an engaging way. The purpose of this study was to evaluate an iPad-based speech therapy app that uses automatic speech recognition (ASR) software to provide feedback on speech accuracy to determine the ASR's accuracy against human judgment and whether participants' speech improved with this ASR-based feedback. Method Five participants with apraxia of speech plus aphasia secondary to stroke completed an intensive 4-week at-home therapy program using a novel word training app with built-in ASR. Multiple baselines across participants and behaviors designs were employed, with weekly probes and follow-up at 1 month posttreatment. Four sessions a week of 100 practice trials each were prescribed, with 1 being clinician-run and the remainder done independently. Dependent variables of interest were ASR-human agreement on accuracy during practice trials and human-judged word production accuracy over time in probes. Also, user experience surveys were completed immediately posttreatment. Results ASR-human agreement on accuracy averaged ~80%, which is a common threshold applied for interrater agreement. All participants demonstrated improved word production accuracy over time with the ASR-based feedback and maintenance of gains after 1 month. All participants reported enjoying using the app with support of a speech pathologist. Conclusion For these participants with apraxia of speech plus aphasia due to stroke, satisfactory gains were made in word production accuracy with an app-based therapy program providing ASR-based feedback on accuracy. Findings support further testing of this ASR-based approach as a supplement to clinician-run sessions to assist clients with similar profiles in achieving higher amount and intensity of practice as well as empowering them to manage their own therapy program. Supplemental Material https://doi.org/10.23641/asha.8206628.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306595	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306595	stroke
PloS one	Antiplatelet treatment in acute coronary syndrome patients: Real-world data from the START-Antiplatelet Italian Registry.	The analysis of the register has documented that both ticagrelor and prasugrel are associated with a statistically significant reduced total and cardiovascular mortality but both do not show a significant increased incidence of major and minor bleedings with respect to clopidogrel.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306454	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306454	stroke
The Journal of craniofacial surgery	Factors Affecting Prognosis in Patients With Spontaneous Supratentorial Intracerebral Hemorrhage Under Medical and Surgical Treatment.	Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a vascular brain disease that causes very high rates of death and disability. Whether surgical or medical treatment is more appropriate is controversial.The purpose of the study was to examine the morbidity and mortality rates of surgical and medical therapy and their differences in order to determine which patients should be operated.In our study, the authors selected randomly and evaluated retrospectively 49 patients who were operated in Haydarpaşa Numune Research and Education Hospital Neurosurgery Clinic and 51 patients who received medical therapy at Neurology Clinic for spontaneous supratentorial ICH between January 2007 and December 2011.The authors documented a detailed history of each patient featuring their neurological examination, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), Modified Rankin Disability Scale (MRDS), imaging, age, gender, and history of stroke, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking and alcohol use, aspirin, or coumadin usage.As a result, the mortality rate found in our study was similar to previous studies (49%). Mortality of patients who underwent surgery (63%) found a higher rate of disability. This is because hematoma of the patients who were operated on larger volumes and diameters, GCS lower than and the higher MRDS scores, higher rates of herniation is connected. The authors concluded that very early operation does not create a difference in treatment between mortality rates. The authors observed that the most important factors for the prognosis of ICH patients whether operated or not are the GCS of patients at the time of arrival to the hospital and the nature of the hematoma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306386	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306386	stroke
Journal of cardiovascular pharmacology	Correlation of Inhaled Long-acting Bronchodilators with Adverse Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Stable COPD: A Bayesian Network Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.	A majority of existing studies have focused on the efficacy of inhaled long-acting bronchodilators (ILABs), such as long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) and long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs), and LABAs combined with LAMAs in treating chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The current meta-analysis aimed to investigate the correlation of ILABs with specific cardiovascular adverse events (CAEs). Five electronic databases, including PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, Scopus and Web of Science, were systematically retrieved. Finally, 16 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were enrolled into the current meta-analysis. Typically, the efficacy of 3 major classes of drugs (LABAs, LAMAs, as well as LABAs combined with LAMAs), as well as 7 specific drugs (including Formoterol, Glycopyrrolate, Indacaterol, Olodaterol, Salmeterol, Tiotropium, and Vilanterol) for 4 CAEs, including myocardial infarction (MI), cardiac failure (CF), ischemic heart disease (IHD) and stroke in stable COPD patients, was examined. All the pooled results were analyzed through the odds ratios (ORs) with the corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs). The direct meta-analysis results suggested that LABAs could increase the risk of CF in patients with stable COPD compared with placebo controls (OR 1.70, 95%CI 1.00-2.90). In addition, network meta-analysis results indicated that LAMAs combined with LABAs would result in an increased risk of CF in patients with stable COPD (OR 2.31, 95%CI 1.10-5.09). According to the ILABs specific drug analysis, Formoterol might potentially have protective effects on IHD compared with placebo controls (OR 0.45, 95%CI 0.18-1.00). In conclusion, among these three kinds of ILABs, including LAMAs, LABAs, and LABAs /LAMAs, for stable COPD patients, LAMAs and LABAs are associated with the least possibility to induce MI and stroke, respectively. However, the application of LABAs will probably increase the risk of CF, they should be used with caution for stable COPD patients with CF. In addition, in specific-drug analysis, the use of formoterol can reduce the risk of treatment-related IHD. Nevertheless, more studies on different drug doses are needed in the future to further validate this conclusion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306366	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306366	stroke
Journal of pediatric hematology/oncology	Recurrent Stroke in a Child With Atlantoaxial Instability Following Chiropractic Manipulation.	Pediatric stroke presents with a variety of signs and symptoms. Correct modality of imaging is essential in decreasing the time from symptom onset to appropriate management. Evaluation of pediatric stroke should include both blood work as well as imaging in a parallel rather than a sequential matter. We report a case of a child with a bow hunter's stroke that was challenging to diagnose. This type of stroke happens when the vertebral artery is occluded at the atlantoaxial or subaxial level during neck rotation. This case demonstrates that workup of stroke should be comprehensive to include all mechanical and anatomic possibilities before investigating rarer hypercoagulable disorders.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306336	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306336	stroke
Anesthesia and analgesia	Continuous Noninvasive Hemoglobin Monitoring Reflects the Development of Acute Hemodilution After Consecutive Fluid Challenges.	Fluid loading aimed at increasing the SV and the DO2 as part of GDT strategy is associated with acute significant decreases in both BHb and SpHb concentrations. When the administration of an FC is not followed by a significant increase (≥10%) in the SV, the DO2 decreases significantly due to the development of acute hemodilution. Continuous noninvasive monitoring of SpHb does not reflect accurately absolute BHb values, but may be reliably used to detect the development of acute hemodilution especially after the administration of at least 500 mL of colloids.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306244	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306244	stroke
Journal of X-ray science and technology	Longitudinal investigation of ischemic stroke using magnetic resonance imaging: Animal model.	The MCAO animal model was successfully established on SD rats using the microsurgery to assess arterial embolization of intracranial tissue injury.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306147	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306147	stroke
Technology and health care : official journal of the European Society for Engineering and Medicine	Gait analysis in hemiplegic stroke survivors who used the one-arm motorized walker.	The one-arm motorized walker may have a positive effect on the improvement of gait ability in hemiplegic stroke survivors. It can be an effective walking aid for hemiplegic stroke survivors who experience difficulties in independent walking.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306144	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306144	stroke
Restorative neurology and neuroscience	Bumetanide: A review of its neuroplasticity and behavioral effects after stroke.	Stroke often leads to neuronal injury and neurological functional deficits. Whilst spontaneous neurogenesis and axon regeneration are induced by ischemic stroke, effective pharmacological treatments are also essential for the improvement of neuroplasticity and functional recovery after stroke. However, no pharmacological therapy has been demonstrated to be able to effectively improve the functional recovery after stroke. Bumetanide is a specific Na +-K +-Cl- co-transporter inhibitor which can maintain chloride homeostasis in neurons. Therefore, many studies have focused on this drug's effect in stroke recovery in recent years. Here, we first review the function of Na +-K +-Cl- co-transporter in neurons, then how bumetanide's role in reducing brain damage, promoting neuroplasticity, leading to functional recovery after stroke, is elucidated. Finally, we discuss current limitations of bumetanide's efficiency and their potential solutions. These results may provide new avenues for further exploring mechanisms of post-stroke functional recovery as well as promising therapeutic targets for functional disability rehabilitation after ischemic stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306143	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306143	stroke
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Measures of Adiposity and Alzheimer's Disease-Related MRI Markers: The Northern Manhattan Study.	Greater BMI and WC were related to cortical thinning within and outside the AD-signature region, suggesting a global effect not specific to AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306120	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306120	stroke
Circulation. Genomic and precision medicine	Subtype Specificity of Genetic Loci Associated With Stroke in 16 664 Cases and 32 792 Controls.	Heterogeneity in the influence of stroke-associated loci on stroke subtypes is pervasive, reflecting differing causal pathways. However, overlap exists between hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke, which may reflect shared pathobiology predisposing to small vessel arteriopathy. Stroke is a complex, heterogeneous disorder requiring tailored analytic strategies to decipher genetic mechanisms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306060	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306060	stroke
Journal of the American Heart Association	Hospital Variation in 30-Day Mortality for Patients With Stroke; The Impact of Individual and Municipal Socio-Demographic Status.	Background Thirty-day mortality after hospitalization for stroke is commonly reported as a quality indicator. However, the impact of adjustment for individual and/or neighborhood sociodemographic status ( SDS ) has not been well documented. This study aims to evaluate the role of individual and contextual sociodemographic determinants in explaining the variation across hospitals in Norway and determine the impact when testing for hospitals with low or high mortality. Methods and Results Patient Administrative System data on all 45 448 patients admitted to hospitals in Norway with an incident stroke diagnosis from 2005 to 2009 were included. The data were merged with data from several databases to obtain information on vital status (dead/alive) and individual SDS variables. Logistic regression models were compared to estimate the predictive effect of individual and neighborhood SDS on 30-day mortality and to determine outlier hospitals. All individual SDS factors, except travel time, were statistically significant predictors of 30-day mortality. Of the municipal variables, only the municipal variable proportion of low income was statistically significant as a predictor of 30-day mortality. Including sociodemographic characteristics of the individual and other characteristics of the municipality improved the model fit. However, performance classification was only changed for 1 (out of 56) hospital, from "significantly high mortality" to "nonoutlier." Conclusions Our study showed that those stroke patients with a lower SDS have higher odds of dying after 30 days compared with those with a higher SDS , although this did not have a substantial impact when classifying providers as performing as expected, better than expected, or worse than expected.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306031	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306031	stroke
Medicine	Atypical "nine" syndrome in bilateral pontine infarction: A case report.	This case report with atypical nine syndrome is fairly rare. Nine syndrome may refer to the lesion located in unilateral tegmentum of the caudal pontine plus paramedian pontine, with an important localization value.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305438	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305438	stroke
Medicine	Effects of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy on neurological and functional rehabilitation in Basal Ganglia Stroke patients with obstructive sleep apnea: A prospective multicenter study.	Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) adversely affects neurological recovery. This study aimed to determine the impact of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and/or rehabilitation in basal ganglia stroke patients with OSA.A prospective controlled trial was conducted in 2015-2018. The subjects received routine rehabilitation training for up to 2 years and were assigned to the intervention and control groups treated with CPAP or without, respectively. Then, treatment effects on sleep parameters, motor function, stroke severity, daily life activities, cognitive function, and psychological states were assessed at different time points.At 6 months, the CPAP group showed significantly lower mean apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), percentage of time with SpO2 at <90% (TS90%), micro-arousal index, and percentages of time in non-rapid eye movement (non-REM) stages 1-2 and REM stage in total sleeping time compared with the control group, and significantly higher mean minimum of peripheral oxygen saturation (L-SaO2%) and percentage of time in stage 3 (P < .001) sleep. The CPAP group showed significant improvements in average the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS), Fugl-Meyer assessment scale (FMA), Barthel index (BI), Minimental state examination (MMSE), Hamilton anxiety scale (HAMA) and Hamilton depression rating scale for depression (HRSD) scores at different times versus the control group, respectively (P < .05). However, no difference in body mass index (BMI) management was observed (P > .05). Repeated-measures ANOVA revealed significant interactions between the two groups for change in FMA, MMSE, BI, HAMA, and HRSD scores from admission to 24 months (P < .001), but no significant was found for BMI (P = .582).Basal ganglia stroke patients with OSA tend to have significantly greater sleeping, neurological and functional recovery after CPAP, and rehabilitation over 2 years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305423	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305423	stroke
Medicine	Factors affecting the occurrence of gastrointestinal bleeding in acute ischemic stroke patients.	Gastrointestinal bleeding (GIB) is a common complication that occurs after stroke, and GIB may negatively affect patient prognosis. In this study, we aimed to examine:(1) the risk factors of GIB in acute cerebral infarction patients;(2) association between GIB and 1-year mortality in patients with acute cerebral infarction.Patients with acute cerebral infarction were divided into 2 groups based on the occurrence of GIB during acute stroke stage. Patient characteristics, clinical presentation, stroke risk factors, comorbidities, laboratory data, medication, and outcomes were investigated to analyze the associations between the variables and the probability of having GIB. In addition, patients in the study were matched individually by age, gender. A 1:1 matched case-control method and conditional logistic regression models for single and multiple factors were used to assess the risk factors of GIB in acute cerebral infarction patients.Clinical data of patients with acute cerebral infarction were reviewed and analyzed during the years 2015 and 2016. Finally, 1662 patients with acute cerebral infarction were included in this study, of whom 139 (8.5%) patients had GIB at admission. Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that the independent risk factors for GIB in patients with acute cerebral infarction were advanced age (OR = 1.030, P = .009), low Glasgow Coma Scale (GSC) score (OR = 0.850, P = .014), infection (OR = 4.693, P < .001), high NIHSS score (OR = 1.114, P = .001), and posterior circulation infarction (OR = 4.981, P = .010). The case-control study ultimately included 136 case-control pairs. Stepwise conditional regression analyses revealed that the independent risk factors for GIB in patients with acute cerebral infarction were low Glasgow Coma Scale (GSC) score (RR = 0.645, P = .011), infection (RR = 15.326, P = .001), and posterior circulation infarction (RR = 6.129, P = .045). The group with GIB had a higher rate of mortality and disability level (mRS grade ≥ 4) than the group without GIB (P < .001) within 1 year after stroke. In addition, independent risk factors of death within 1 year after stroke in patients were GIB (OR = 6.096, P < .001), infection (OR = 4.493, P < .001), mRS grade ≥ 4 (OR = 4.129, P < .001), and coronary heart disease (OR = 3.718, P = .001).GIB is a common complication after ischemic stroke. These identified factors may help clinicians identify risks of GIB before it develops. GIB is associated with increased risk of 1-year mortality and poor functional outcome in acute cerebral infarction patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305417	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305417	stroke
Expert review of cardiovascular therapy	Management of patients with concomitant coronary and carotid artery disease.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305175	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305175	stroke
The American psychologist	Mary Brown Parlee (1943-2018).	Mary Brown Parlee was a pioneer feminist scholar who made noteworthy and enduring contributions to the study of the menstrual cycle. Parlee died in Somerville, Massachusetts, on June 27, 2018, following a hemorrhagic stroke. Throughout her career, Parlee devoted considerable energy to educating the public about psychology and to correcting misapprehensions about women that the discipline had promulgated. In the late 1970s, she served as an associate editor for 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305108	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305108	stroke
Food & function	Ergostatrien-7,9(11),22-trien-3β-ol from Antrodia camphorata ameliorates ischemic stroke brain injury via downregulation of p65NF-κ-B and caspase 3, and activation of Akt/GSK3/catenin-associated neurogenesis.	Antrodia camphorata is a well-known traditional Chinese mushroom used as a functional food and nutraceutical in Taiwan and China. The aim of this study was to explore the protective effects and mechanism(s) of the ethyl acetate crude extract of A. camphorata (EtOAc-AC) and its active constituent ergostatrien-7,9(11),22-trien-3β-ol (EK100) in an acute ischemic stroke (AIS) murine model. Treating mice with induced AIS injury by using EtOAc-AC (0.3-0.6 g kg-1, p.o.) and EK100 (60 and 120 mg kg-1, p.o.) 2 h after AIS induction significantly increased the tracking distance and reduced brain infarction. Both EtOAc-AC and EK-100 reduced the expression levels of p65NF-κB and caspase 3 near the peri-infarct cortex and promoted the expression of neurogenesis-associated protein doublecortin (DCX) near the hippocampus, accompanied by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) inhibition and β-catenin upregulation. Signaling pathway analysis revealed that the advantageous effects of EtOAc-AC and EK-100 involved triggering the activation of PI3K/Akt and inhibition of GSK-3. Our findings suggest that EtOAc-AC and its active constituent EK100 display anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic activities. Both EtOAc-AC and EK100 reduce ischemic brain injury by decreasing p65NF-κB and caspase 3 expression, and they promote neurogenesis (DCX) and neuroprotection (Bcl2) by activating the PI3k/Akt-associated GSK3 inhibition and β-catenin activation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304955	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304955	stroke
Physiology international	Sex differences in cardiovascular responses to orthostatic challenge in healthy older persons: A pilot study.	The data indicate that older women showed higher sympathetic and lower parasympathetic activity at rest compared to age-matched men. These results are contradictory to the observations from previous studies, which showed a reduced sympathetic and enhanced parasympathetic activity in women in all ages. Further studies are required to determine the underlying mechanisms contributing to higher incidence of orthostatic hypotension in older females.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Hungary	31304761	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304761	stroke
Minerva endocrinologica	Diabetes mellitus and susceptibility to hemorrhagic stroke: a MiR126 affair?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31304729	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304729	stroke
Journal of clinical hypertension (Greenwich, Conn.)	Association of interarm blood pressure difference with cardio-cerebral vascular disease: A community-based, cross-sectional study.	Interarm blood pressure difference (IAD) is a risk factor for peripheral artery disease and cardio-cerebral vascular disease (CCVD). The current study examines the association of IAD with stroke and coronary heart disease in a Chinese community. A cross-sectional study was conducted in Pudong New Area in Shanghai, China. A total of 10 657 residents aged 15 years and older were randomly selected through three-stage sampling. Volunteers had systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) measured in both arms at recruitment, and IAD was defined in both arms as the absolute difference in BP. Medical records of study participants were reviewed by investigators to confirm measurements. Logistic regression models were used to assess the association between systolic interarm blood pressure difference (sIAD) and diastolic interarm blood pressure difference (dIAD) with stroke and coronary heart disease. Compared with dIAD <5 mm Hg, the multivariate adjusted odds ratio (OR) of stroke prevalence was 1.357 (95% CI 0.725-2.542, P = 0.034) for dIAD ≥20 mm Hg and 1.702 (95% CI1.025-2.828, P = 0.040) for dIAD between 15 and 19 mm Hg, and the multivariate adjusted OR of coronary heart disease prevalence was 1.726 (95% CI 1.093-2.726, P = 0.019) for dIAD ≥20 mm Hg and 1.498 (95% CI 0.993-2.261, P = 0.044) for dIAD between 15 and 19 mm Hg. The relationship between cardio-cerebral vascular disease and dIAD was significant in a Chinese community population. Further cohort studies are needed to investigate the association of different levels of IAD with the incidence of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases and subsequent mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304684	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304684	stroke
Acta neurologica Taiwanica	Renal Function Estimates and Dosing of Direct Oral Anticoagulants in Stroke Patients with Atrial Fibrillation: An Observational Study.	Although substituting eGFR for CrCl carries potential risks of DOAC overdosing in patients with AF, the effect might be offset by clinicians' predilection for lower dosage in this stroke cohort.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China (Republic : 1949- )	31304571	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304571	stroke
NPJ digital medicine	Machine learning detection of obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy using a wearable biosensor.	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a heritable disease of heart muscle that increases the risk for heart failure, stroke, and sudden death, even in asymptomatic patients. With only 10-20% of affected people currently diagnosed, there is an unmet need for an effective screening tool outside of the clinical setting. Photoplethysmography uses a noninvasive optical sensor incorporated in commercial smart watches to detect blood volume changes at the skin surface. In this study, we obtained photoplethysmography recordings and echocardiograms from 19 HCM patients with left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (oHCM) and a control cohort of 64 healthy volunteers. Automated analysis showed a significant difference in oHCM patients for 38/42 morphometric pulse wave features, including measures of systolic ejection time, rate of rise during systole, and respiratory variation. We developed a machine learning classifier that achieved a C-statistic for oHCM detection of 0.99 (95% CI: 0.99-1.0). With further development, this approach could provide a noninvasive and widely available screening tool for obstructive HCM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304403	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304403	stroke
Integrative medicine research	Overview of systematic reviews with meta-analyses on acupuncture in post-stroke cognitive impairment and depression management.	None	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31304087	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304087	stroke
Acute medicine & surgery	Elderly-onset acute necrotizing encephalopathy mimicking severe heat stroke: a case report and review of the literature.	In elderly patients, differentiating ANE from severe heat stroke in a high-temperature environment is difficult because of the similarities in clinical symptoms due to multiple organ failure.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31304037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304037	stroke
Acute medicine & surgery	Verifying the Japanese version of the Preschool Confusion Assessment Method for the ICU (psCAM-ICU).	We verified the psCAM-ICU and it shows high validity and reliability.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304031	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304031	stroke
The Pan African medical journal	A huge retropharyngeal lipoma: a rare cause of dysphagia: a case report and literature review.	Dysphagia is commonly seen after a cerebral vascular accident. It is rarely caused by lipomas of the retropharyngeal region which are rare benign mesenchymal neoplasms. We report a case of a 53-year-old man who presented with a history of ptyalism and dysphagia occurring after a brain stroke. Flexible nasal endoscopy revealed a pooling of saliva in both pyriform sinuses. Cervical and neurological examinations were unremarkable. Computed tomography (CT) scan suggested the diagnosis of retropharyngeal lipoma. The mass was resected by trans-cervical approach. The histological examination confirmed the diagnosis of a retropharyngeal lipoma. The postoperative course was unremarkable. Although lipomas in the retropharyngeal space are rare, clinicians should evoke this diagnosis when treating a patient presenting with dysphagia, even if there is a medical history of cerebral vascular accident.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Uganda	31303957	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303957	stroke
The Pan African medical journal	A case of bilateral thalamic infarct complicating tuberculous meningoencephalitis.	Ischemic stroke can result from multiple etiologies. It can also be a complication of tuberculous meningoencephalitis and determine its outcome. stroke secondary to tuberculous meningoencephalitis, occurs in 30% cases in the basal ganglia region, unusually in the thalamus. The mechanism of stroke in this condition is vasculitis. We report an unusual case of bilateral thalamic infarcts complicating tuberculous meningoencephalitis. Ischemic stroke in tuberculous meningoencephalitis is unpredictable with poor prognosis despite antituberculous drug treatment, emphasising the importance of primary prevention, particularly in tuberculosis endemic areas.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Uganda	31303947	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303947	stroke
The Pan African medical journal	The prognostic value of serum uric acid in the acute phase of hemorrhagic stroke patients in black Africans.	About one third of patients present with hyperuricemia in the acute phase of hemorrhagic stroke. Hyperuricemia can act as risk factor for stroke because of its relationship with CVRFs but hyperuricemia has no impact on the severity and short-term outcome amongst black African hemorrhagic stroke patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31303934	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303934	stroke
Saudi journal of biological sciences	Association between PDE4D polymorphism and ischemic stroke in young population.	We found an association between SNP83 and the risk of IS in Chinese young population from northern Henan province. There was not a significant association between SNP87 and IS in Chinese young population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Saudi Arabia	31303835	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303835	stroke
Zhong nan da xue xue bao. Yi xue ban = Journal of Central South University. Medical sciences	[Clinical and image features for 12 cases of cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with the subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy].	目的：分析伴有皮质下梗死和白质脑病的常染色体显性遗传性脑动脉病(cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with the subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy，CADASIL)患者的临床和影像学特征。方法：收集2013年1月至2018年12月在中南大学湘雅医院通过基因确诊的CADASIL患者12例，回顾性分析其临床表现、危险因素、MRI影像学特征和Notch3基因突变。结果：12例患者年龄为(47.25±9.49)岁，临床表现以认知障碍(75%)和脑卒中事件(58.3%)最常见，2例表现为脑出血。合并偏头痛少见(25%)。MRI均存在累及脑室旁和深部白质的脑白质高信号(white matter hyperintensities，WMH)和腔隙及血管周围间隙(perivascular spaces，PVS)扩大。WMH主要累及额顶叶(100%)、颞叶(83.3%)、外囊(66.7%)、枕叶(41.6%)、胼胝体(41.6%)和颞极(33.3%)；腔隙主要累及额叶(91.6%)、顶叶(83.3%)、颞叶(66.7%)、基底节区(66.7%)、脑干(41.6%)、枕叶(33.3%)、小脑(8.3%)；扩大的PVS均位于基底节区(100%)，部分累及皮层下(45.4%)。脑出血患者WMH程度较轻(Fezakas评分为1~2分)，且外囊无受累。16.7%患者存在颅内大动脉狭窄。12例患者中共检测到8种不同的Notch3基因突变，位于6号外显子的c.1013G>C p.(Cys338Ser)为CADASIL新的致病突变。结论：本组以脑出血为表现的患者脑白质病变较轻，基因型亦有特异性，其临床表型可能与影像学、基因表型相关。.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31303619	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303619	stroke
The Journal of invasive cardiology	Revascularization Strategies in Patients With STEMI: Culprit-Only vs Multivessel Revascularization Using Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.	The relative frequency of multivessel vs culprit-only PCI has not changed from 2009-2015. Index complete revascularization for STEMI-MVD patients is more likely to be performed in those with worse presentations and is associated with worse in-hospital complications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303602	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303602	stroke
Revista portuguesa de cardiologia : orgao oficial da Sociedade Portuguesa de Cardiologia = Portuguese journal of cardiology : an official journal of the Portuguese Society of Cardiology	A pregnant woman with a prosthetic mechanical valve.	A 24-year-old woman who was 11 weeks pregnant and had a mechanical mitral valve presented at the emergency department with ischemic stroke. Although treatment with aspirin and unfractionated heparin was initially successful, subsequent management was almost impossible, as she eventually suffered a right hemispheric stroke, requiring percutaneous intervention and an emergency cesarian; prosthetic valve thrombosis with hemodynamic instability; and multiple bleeding complications. This case demonstrates how difficult it can be to select the appropriate treatment strategy for prosthetic valve thrombosis.	2019	por	Journal Article	Portugal	31303466	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303466	stroke
Archives of cardiovascular diseases	Infective endocarditis without biological inflammatory syndrome: Description of a particular entity.	Left-sided valvular IE with limited or no biological syndrome is rare, but is often associated with severe valvular and paravalvular lesions. TOE should be performed in presence of unexplained heart failure, new valvular regurgitation or cardioembolic stroke when TTE is insufficient to rule out endocarditis, even in patients with a low CRP concentration.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303461	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303461	stroke
Epilepsy & behavior : E&B	Poststroke seizures as stroke mimics: Clinical assessment and management.	Epileptic seizures with postictal negative symptoms represent 20% of all suspected strokes and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of stroke in any patient presenting with an acute neurological deficit, mostly in absence of convulsions. Seizures may also occur at stroke onset, and the latter need to be promptly recognized in order to timely administer reperfusion therapies and reduce the risk of irreversible brain injury. Neuroimaging is essential in differentiating between postictal negative symptoms and deficits due to stroke. After the acute phase, poststroke seizures may worsen or cause the reappearance of neurological deficits and consciousness impairment; they can be also misinterpreted as stroke recurrence and lead to delayed treatment with antiepileptic drugs. It is mandatory to maintain a low threshold for suspecting epileptic seizures, and require appropriate electroencephalographic and neuroimaging investigations to promptly ascertain the etiology of any unexplained change in the neurological status and provide the most adequate treatment. This article is part of the Special Issue "Seizures & Stroke".	2019	eng	Review	United States	31303444	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303444	stroke
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Comparing Outcomes of Patients With Idiopathic Subarachnoid Hemorrhage by Stratifying Perimesencephalic Bleeding Patterns.	These data suggest that patients with the best clinical course were those in Peri-1, followed by Peri-2, and then diffuse. Because these patients often present with similar clinical signs, stratifying by hemorrhage pattern may help clinicians predict which patients with perimesencephalic subarachnoid hemorrhage develop complications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303438	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303438	stroke
International journal of cardiology	Lipid levels achieved after a first myocardial infarction and the prediction of recurrent atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.	Our data question the importance of LDL-C levels achieved at first revisit post-MI for decisions on continued treatment intensity considering the weak association with rASCVD observed in this post-MI cohort.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303394	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303394	stroke
The American journal of cardiology	Changes in Management Following Detection of Previously Unknown Atrial Fibrillation by an Insertable Cardiac Monitor (from the REVEAL AF Study).	The REVEAL AF study demonstrated a high incidence of previously undetected atrial fibrillation (AF) using insertable cardiac monitors (ICMs) in patients with risk factors for AF and stroke. This analysis evaluated whether ICM monitoring led to changes in clinical management after AF detection. Patients with CHADS	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303247	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303247	stroke
The Canadian journal of neurological sciences. Le journal canadien des sciences neurologiques	Cincinnati Prehospital Stroke Scale for EMS Redirection of Large Vessel Occlusion Stroke.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303192	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303192	stroke
Stroke	Caution.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31303154	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303154	stroke
Stroke	Outcome in Direct Versus Transfer Patients in the DAWN Controlled Trial.	Background and Purpose- The impact of transfer status on clinical outcomes in the DAWN (DWI or CTP Assessment With Clinical Mismatch in the Triage of Wake-Up and Late Presenting Strokes Undergoing Neurointervention With Trevo) population is unknown. We analyzed workflow and clinical outcome differences between direct versus transfer patients in the DAWN population. Methods- The following time metrics were analyzed for each group: (1) last known well to hospital arrival, (2) hospital arrival to eligibility imaging, (3) hospital arrival to arterial puncture, (4) qualifying imaging to arterial puncture, (5) last known well to arterial puncture, (6) last known well to reperfusion. The primary end point was the rate of functional independence (90-day modified Rankin Scale [mRS] score, 0-2). Using univariate unconditional logistic regression, we calculated odds ratios and 95% CIs for the association between clinically relevant time metrics, transfer status, and functional independence (mRS 0-2). Results- A total of 206 patients were enrolled. Among these, 121 (59%) patients were transferred, and 85 (41%) patients presented directly to a thrombectomy capable center. Median time last seen well to hospital arrival time was similar between the 2 groups (678 versus 696 minutes). The time from hospital arrival to groin puncture was significantly longer in direct patients compared with transferred patients 140 minutes (interquartile range, 105.5-177.5 minutes) and 88 minutes (interquartile range, 55-125 minutes), respectively ( P<0.001). Differences in treatment effect or differences in rates of mRS 0-2 in the thrombectomy treated patients were not statistically significant in direct versus transfer patients (odds ratios for mRS 0-2, thrombectomy versus control, were 5.62 in direct and 6.63 in transfer patients, respectively, Breslow-Day P=0.817). Conclusions- Although transfer patients had a faster door to puncture time, benefits of thrombectomy, and rates of mRS 0 to 2 in the treatment group were similar between direct and transferred patients in the DAWN population. These results may inform prehospital and primary stroke centers triage protocols in patients presenting in the late time window. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov . Unique identifier: NCT02142283.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303153	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303153	stroke
Stroke	Patterns and Outcomes of Endovascular Therapy in Mild Stroke.	Background and Purpose- We aimed to evaluate the current practice patterns, safety and outcomes of patients who receive endovascular therapy (EVT) having mild neurological symptoms. Methods- From Jan 2010 to Jan 2018, 127,794 ischemic stroke patients were enrolled in the Florida-Puerto Rico Stroke Registry. Patients presenting within 24 hours of symptoms who received EVT were classified into mild (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale [NIHSS] ≤5) or moderate/severe (NIHSS>5) categories. Differences in clinical characteristics and outcomes were evaluated using multivariable logistic regression. Results- Among 4110 EVT patients (median age, 73 [interquartile range=20] years; 50% women), 446 (11%) had NIHSS ≤5. Compared with NIHSS >5, those with NIHSS ≤5 arrived later to the hospital (median, 138 versus 101 minutes), were less likely to receive intravenous alteplase (30% versus 43%), had a longer door-to-puncture time (median, 167 versus 115 minutes) and more likely treated in South Florida (64% versus 53%). In multivariable analysis younger age, private insurance (versus Medicare), history of hypertension, prior independent ambulation and hospital size were independent characteristics associated with NIHSS ≤5. Among EVT patients with NIHSS ≤5, 76% were discharged home/rehabilitation and 64% were able to ambulate independently at discharge as compared with 53% and 32% of patients with NIHSS >5. Symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage occurred in 4% of mild stroke EVT patients and 6.4% in those with NIHSS >5. Conclusions- Despite lack of evidence-based recommendations, 11% of patients receiving EVT in clinical practice have mild neurological presentations. Individual, hospital and geographic disparities are observed among endovascularly treated patients based on the severity of clinical symptoms. Our data suggest safety and overall favorable outcomes for EVT patients with mild stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303151	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303151	stroke
Stroke	Prevention of Stroke in Atrial Fibrillation After Coronary Stenting.	Background and Purpose- The optimal antithrombotic strategy to balance thromboembolic and bleeding events, especially acute stroke, for patients with atrial fibrillation following coronary stenting remains a matter of debate. We conducted a network meta-analysis to identify the antithrombotic regimen associated with the lowest rate of bleeding and thromboembolic events in atrial fibrillation after coronary stenting. Methods- PubMed, Scopus, and Cochrane Central were searched for randomized controlled trials and observational studies of patients with atrial fibrillation after coronary stenting. The outcomes of interest were stroke, myocardial infarction, major adverse cardiac events, mortality, and major bleeding. A network meta-analysis was performed comparing the available antithrombotic regimens in the literature. Results- Three randomized and 15 observational studies were included, with a total of 23 478 participants. Median follow-up was 2 years. Network meta-analysis demonstrated that vitamin K antagonist plus single antiplatelet therapy or direct-acting oral anticoagulant plus single antiplatelet therapy were the most effective regimens in preventing stroke. Direct-acting oral anticoagulant regimens were associated with lower major bleeding rates than vitamin K antagonist regimens. Regimens with dual antiplatelet therapy were associated with lower rates of myocardial infarction. Vitamin K antagonist plus dual antiplatelet therapy was associated with a lower mortality and low-dose direct-acting oral anticoagulants with decreased major cardiovascular adverse events. Conclusions- Direct-acting oral anticoagulant regimens were associated with less major bleeding and major cardiovascular adverse events, but vitamin K antagonists were associated with decreased mortality and stroke. These results suggest that the decision of antithrombotic therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation after percutaneous coronary intervention needs to be individualized.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303150	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303150	stroke
Topics in stroke rehabilitation	Associations between characteristics of stroke survivors and caregiver depressive symptoms: a critical review.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303131	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303131	stroke
Angiology	Complementary Impact of Carotid Intima-Media Thickness With Plaque in Associations With Noncardiac Arterial Vascular Events.	The ability of carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) to predict risk beyond plaque is controversial. In 952 participants (critical limb ischemia [CLI] or stroke, n = 473; community, n = 479), we assessed whether relationships with events for IMT complement the impact of plaque in young patients depending on the extent of thrombotic versus atherosclerotic disease. The extent of atherosclerotic versus thrombotic occlusion was determined in 54 patients with CLI requiring amputations. Thrombotic occlusion in CLI was associated with younger age (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303025	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303025	stroke
Neurointervention	Dichotomizing Level of Pial Collaterals on Multiphase CT Angiography for Endovascular Treatment in Acute Ischemic Stroke: Should It Be Refined for 6-Hour Time Window?	A pial arterial filling cut-off score of 2 as determined by mpCTA appears to be more suitable for predicting clinical outcomes following endovascular treatment within 6 hours of symptom onset than the cut-off of 3 that had been previously suggested.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31302985	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302985	stroke
Journal of thrombosis and thrombolysis	Intravenous thrombolysis in acute ischemic stroke due to intracranial artery dissection: a single-center case series and a review of literature.	Efficacy and safety of intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) due to intracranial artery dissection (IAD) are currently not established. We aimed to present a single-center experience on IAD-related AIS treated by IVT. We selected all consecutive patients with IAD-related AIS treated by IVT from a prospectively constructed single-center acute stroke registry from 2003 to 2017. We reviewed demographical, clinical and neuroimaging data and recorded hemorrhagic complications, mortality within 7 days and modified Rankin Scale at 3-months. Out of 181 AISs related to cervicocephalic dissections, 10 (5.5%) were due to IAD and five of these patients received IVT. Among these five patients, median age was 62 years; hypertension and dyslipidemia were the most frequent vascular risk factors. IAD locations were distal internal carotid artery, middle cerebral artery (M1), anterior cerebral artery (A2), and, in two cases, the basilar artery. All anterior circulation IADs were occlusive or subocclusive, while the two basilar artery IADs caused arterial stenosis. After IVT, there were no subarachnoid or symptomatic intracranial hemorrhages. One patient had an asymptomatic hemorrhagic infarct type 1. Two patients died within 7 days from ischemic mass effect. The other three patients had favorable clinical outcomes at 3-months. In this small single-center case series of IAD-related AIS, thrombolysis seemed relatively safe. However, IVT efficacy and the likelihood of arterial recanalization are still uncertain in this context. Further studies are needed to assess the safety and efficacy of IVT in these patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302824	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302824	stroke
Journal of clinical monitoring and computing	Feasibility evaluation of non-invasive cardiac function technology during echocardiography-based cardiac stress testing.	Evaluation of cardiac function during periods of stress is of key importance for the perioperative setting. Non-invasive hemodynamic monitors provide markers of cardiac function. This pilot study sought to evaluate the ability of a non-invasive hemodynamic monitor to detect cardiac stress during formal stress echocardiography testing. The primary goal was to compare the change in hemodynamic values during the pre/during/post phases of stress echocardiography testing in patients who had results negative versus positive for myocardial ischemia. Adult patients scheduled for outpatient cardiac stress testing were screened. Only patients scheduled for stress-echocardiography testing were consented. Patients with history of arrhythmias were excluded. During the testing, patients wore a cuff-based hemodynamic sensor (Nexfin system, Edwards Lifesciences). Data from the hemodynamic sensor were compared to the findings of the stress study. A total of 37 patients were enrolled, with 31 patients included for analysis. Five patients had stress studies positive for coronary ischemia. Comparison of the hemodynamic variables between patients who had a positive stress study versus negative showed a significant reduction in the percentage change in dP/dt and stroke volume from baseline (p < 0.05). This pilot study indicates that patients who have abnormal stress echocardiograms also have significantly reduced values from a noninvasive hemodynamic monitor. Further evaluation of the clinical utility of this technology, to assist in the care of patients at risk for cardiac ischemia, should be carried out.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302789	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302789	stroke
European heart journal	Response to: Risk stratification for stroke in atrial fibrillation: incorporating neurologists in the comprehensive management.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302678	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302678	stroke
European heart journal	Risk stratification for stroke in atrial fibrillation: incorporating neurologists in the comprehensive management.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302676	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302676	stroke
Cardiology	Heat Stress Impacts on Cardiac Mortality in Nepali Migrant Workers in Qatar.	The increased CVD mortality during hot periods is most likely due to severe heat stress. As many as 200 of the 571 CVD deaths during 2009-2017 could have been prevented if effective heat protection had been implemented as a part of local occupational health and safety programs. There is an urgent need for protection against such heat effects among NMWs, and rising temperatures from ongoing climate change are further increasing the health risks. Cause of death records for workers dying in hot conditions should be more precise than "cardiac arrest."	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31302648	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302648	stroke
BMJ case reports	POEMS syndrome complicated by ischaemic stroke and cerebral vasculitis.	We present a case of ischaemic stroke in the context of polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome associated with cerebral vasculitis as confirmed by imaging. There is little information on the prevalence of cerebral vasculitis in POEMS patients, and we found only one previous report of such case in the literature.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302621	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302621	stroke
BMJ case reports	Hepatic artery pseudoaneurysm following percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram: an extremely rare complication.	A 72-year-old female patient who was admitted for ischaemic stroke had developed ascending cholangitis. Percutaneous transhepatic cholangiogram was performed to drain the infected bile, but this was complicated by haemorrhagic shock and hepatic haematoma. Mesenteric angiogram showed right hepatic artery (RHA) pseudoaneurysm which was embolised, there by stopping her bleeding. RHA is normally located posterior to common bile duct (CBD). An uncommon location of RHA is anterior to CBD, which can lead to haemorrhagic complications during percutaneous cholangiogram.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302620	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302620	stroke
Cortex; a journal devoted to the study of the nervous system and behavior	Dissociating action and abstract verb comprehension post-stroke.	The neural bases of action and abstract concept representations remain a topic of debate. While several lines of research provide evidence for grounding of action-related conceptual content into sensory-motor systems, results of traditional lesion-deficit studies have been somewhat inconsistent. Further, few studies have directly compared the neural substrates of action and relatively abstract verb comprehension post-stroke. Here, we investigated the impact of the disruption of two neural networks on comprehension of action and relatively abstract verbs in 48 unilateral left-hemisphere stroke patients using two methodologies: 1) lesion-deficit association and 2) resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) analyses. Disruption of RSFC between the left inferior frontal gyrus and right hemisphere primary and secondary sensory-motor areas predicted greater relative impairment of action semantics. Voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping revealed that damage to frontal white matter, extending towards the inferior frontal gyrus, also predicted greater relative impairment of action semantics. On the other hand, damage to the left anterior middle temporal gyrus significantly impaired the more abstract category relative to action. These findings support the view that action and non-action/abstract semantic processing rely on partially dissociable brain networks, with action concepts relying more heavily on sensory-motor areas. The results also have wider implications for lesion-deficit association studies and show how the contralateral hemisphere can play a compensatory role following unilateral stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31302507	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302507	stroke
Archives of gerontology and geriatrics	Association of physical performance and self-rated health with multimorbidity among older adults: Results from a nationwide survey in Japan.	Multimorbidity is prevalent in older Japanese adults, and poor grip strength and self-rated health were independently and significantly associated with multimorbidity. Health assessments that include these indicators may provide insight into the health status patterns of older adults with multimorbidity and inform the development of health management strategies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302504	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302504	stroke
Neuroscience	Protective Role of Levetiracetam Against Cognitive Impairment And Brain White Matter Damage in Mouse prolonged Cerebral Hypoperfusion.	White matter lesions due to cerebral hypoperfusion may be an important pathophysiology in vascular dementia and stroke, although the inherent mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. The present study, using a mouse model of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion, examined the white matter protective effects of levetiracetam, an anticonvulsant, via the signaling cascade from the activation of cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation. Mice underwent bilateral common carotid artery stenosis (BCAS), and were separated into the levetiracetam group (injected once only after BCAS [LEV1] or injected on three consecutive days [LEV3]), the vehicle group, or the anti-epileptic drugs with different action mechanisms phenytoin group (PHT3; injected on three consecutive days with the same condition as in LEV3). Cerebral blood flow analysis, Y-maze spontaneous alternation test, novel object recognition test, immunohistochemical and Western blot analyses, and protein kinase A assay were performed after BCAS. In the LEV3 group, SV2A expression was markedly increased, which preserved learning and memory after BCAS. Moreover, as the protein kinase A level was significantly increased, pCREB expression was also increased. The activation of microglia and astrocytes was markedly suppressed, although the number of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) and GST-pi-positive-oligodendrocytes was markedly higher in the cerebral white matter. Moreover, oxidative stress was significantly reduced. We found that 3-day treatment with levetiracetam maintained SV2A protein expression via interaction with astrocytes, which influenced the OPC lineage through activation of CREB to protect white matter from ischemia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302262	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302262	stroke
Heart rhythm	Left Atrial Appendage Closure Device Implantation in Patients at Very High Risk for Stroke.	In a population of patients with mean CHA2DS2-VASc of 5.7, Watchman™ implantation appeared to be safe and efficacious, with a residual annual ischemic stroke risk of 2.8%. In an atrial fibrillation population with a similar CHA2DS2-VASc score, the estimated annual risk of stroke is ≈12% off anticoagulation and >4% on warfarin.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302250	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302250	stroke
Life sciences	A meta-analysis on relationship between paraoxonase 1 polymorphisms and atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases.	In summary, this meta-analysis proved that PON1 rs854560 polymorphism could be used to identify individual with elevated susceptibility to IS, whereas rs662 polymorphism could be used to identify individual with elevated susceptibility to CAD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302193	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302193	stroke
JAMA neurology	Staging β-Amyloid Pathology With Amyloid Positron Emission Tomography.	Results of this study suggest that this robust staging system of Aβ accumulation may be useful for monitoring patients throughout the course of AD. Progression through stages may depend on underlying selective vulnerability in different brain regions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314895	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314895	Alzheimer
Obesity (Silver Spring, Md.)	Elevated Insulin and Insulin Resistance are Associated with Altered Myelin in Cognitively Unimpaired Middle-Aged Adults.	The results suggest that insulin and IR influence white matter myelination in a cognitively unimpaired population. Additional studies are needed to determine the extent to which this may contribute to cognitive decline or vulnerability to neurodegenerative disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314172	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314172	Alzheimer
Neurotherapeutics : the journal of the American Society for Experimental NeuroTherapeutics	Tetramethylpyrazine Analogue T-006 Promotes the Clearance of Alpha-synuclein by Enhancing Proteasome Activity in Parkinson's Disease Models.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder worldwide and is characterized in part by the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). The main pathological hallmark of PD is the intraneuronal accumulation of misfolded α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregates. Mutations in the SNCA gene (encoding α-syn) and variations in its copy number are associated with some forms of familial PD. In the present study, T-006, a new tetramethylpyrazine (TMP) derivative with recently reported anti-Alzheimer activity, is shown to significantly promote α-syn degradation in a cellular PD model. Moreover, we illustrate that T-006 inhibits the accumulation of both Triton-soluble and -insoluble forms of α-syn and protects against α-syn-induced neurotoxicity in A53T-α-syn transgenic mice. The mechanism of action of T-006 was verified by evaluation of a potential protein degradation pathway. We found that T-006 promotes α-syn degradation in a proteasome-dependent and autophagy-independent manner. We further confirmed that T-006 enhances proteasome activity by upregulating 20S proteasome subunit β5i (LMP7) protein expression. A functional study revealed that T-006 activates the PKA/Akt/mTOR/p70S6K pathway to trigger LMP7 expression and enhance chymotrypsin-like proteasomal activity. These findings indicate that T-006 is a potent proteasome activator and a potential therapeutic agent for the prevention and treatment of PD and related diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313223	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313223	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Associations of Physical Activity and β-Amyloid With Longitudinal Cognition and Neurodegeneration in Clinically Normal Older Adults.	Greater physical activity and lower vascular risk independently attenuated the negative association of Aβ burden with cognitive decline and neurodegeneration in asymptomatic individuals. These findings suggest that engaging in physical activity and lowering vascular risk may have additive protective effects on delaying the progression of Alzheimer disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312836	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312836	Alzheimer
Cureus	Recommendations for Anti-inflammatory Treatments in Alzheimer's Disease: A Comprehensive Review of the Literature.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in elderly patients, affecting individuals older than 60 years. It is a complex degenerative brain disease characterized by progressive cognitive impairment. AD constitutes a major global health concern. A central role for inflammation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. Despite the understanding of multiple molecular pathways in the pathophysiology of AD, novel treatment agents with a possible role in modifying the disease activity are still lacking. Our article provides a comprehensive review of various observational studies and randomized trials encompassing the use of anti-inflammatory agents in the management of AD patients and utilizes the conclusions derived therefrom to give recommendations in this regard.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31312547	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312547	Alzheimer
Frontiers in aging neuroscience	Decoding the Role of Platelets and Related MicroRNAs in Aging and Neurodegenerative Disorders.	Platelets are anucleate cells that circulate in blood and are essential components of the hemostatic system. During aging, platelet numbers decrease and their aggregation capacity is reduced. Platelet dysfunctions associated with aging can be linked to molecular alterations affecting several cellular systems that include cytoskeleton rearrangements, signal transduction, vesicular trafficking, and protein degradation. Age platelets may adopt a phenotype characterized by robust secretion of extracellular vesicles that could in turn account for about 70-90% of blood circulating vesicles. Interestingly these extracellular vesicles are loaded with messenger RNAs and microRNAs that may have a profound impact on protein physiology at the systems level. Age platelet dysfunction is also associated with accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Thereby understanding the mechanisms of aging in platelets as well as their age-dependent dysfunctions may be of interest when evaluating the contribution of aging to the onset of age-dependent pathologies, such as those affecting the nervous system. In this review we summarize the findings that link platelet dysfunctions to neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Huntington's Disease, and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. We discuss the role of platelets as drivers of protein dysfunctions observed in these pathologies, their association with aging and the potential clinical significance of platelets, and related miRNAs, as peripheral biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of neurodegenerative diseases.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312134	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312134	Alzheimer
Frontiers in neuroscience	Nerve Growth Factor Pathobiology During the Progression of Alzheimer's Disease.	The current review summarizes the pathobiology of nerve growth factor (NGF) and its cognate receptors during the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Both transcript and protein data indicate that cholinotrophic neuronal dysfunction is related to an imbalance between TrkA-mediated survival signaling and the NGF precursor (proNGF)/p75	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312116	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312116	Alzheimer
Dementia and geriatric cognitive disorders	In vivo Prevalence of Alzheimer Biomarkers in Dementia with Lewy Bodies.	Reduction in Αβ42 in DLB may be more common (>80% of patients) than previously thought, and ∼40% may have the typical CSF AD biomarker profile. AD biochemistry in DLB may be an evolving process showing increasing frequency with disease progression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311013	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311013	Alzheimer
ACS chemical neuroscience	Novel Multi-Target Directed Triazinoindole Derivatives as Anti-Alzheimer Agents.	The multifaceted nature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) demands treatment with multitarget-directed ligands to confront the key pathological aberrations. A novel series of triazinoindole derivatives were designed and synthesized. In vitro studies revealed that all the compounds showed moderate to good anti-cholinesterase activity; the most active compound 23e showing IC50 value of 0.56 ± 0.02 μM for AChE and IC50 value of 1.17 ± 0.09 μM for BuChE. These derivatives are also endowed with potent anti-oxidant activity. To understand the plausible binding mode of the compound 23e, molecular docking studies and molecular dynamics simulation studies were performed and the results indicated significant interactions of 23e within the active sites of AChE as well as BuChE. Compound 23e successfully diminished H2O2-induced oxidative stress in SH-SY5Y cells and displayed excellent neuroprotective activity against H2O2 as well as Aβ-induced toxicity in SH-SY5Y cells in a concentration dependent manner. Furthermore, it did not show any significant toxicity in neuronal SH-SY5Y cells in the cytotoxicity assay. Compound 23e did not show any acute toxicity in mice at doses up to 2000 mg/kg, and significantly reversed scopolamine-induced memory deficit in mice model. Additionally, compound 23e showed notable in silico ADMET properties. Taken collectively, these findings project compound 23e as a potential balanced MTDL in the evolution process of novel anti-AD drugs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310717	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310717	Alzheimer
PloS one	The association between eating difficulties and biliary sludge in the gallbladder in older adults with advanced dementia, at end of life.	Fasting status may be associated with the existence of biliary sludge in older adults with dementia. Therefore, supportive care for eating might be an important solution to comfortable end-of-life care for older adults with advanced dementia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310644	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310644	Alzheimer
Avicenna journal of phytomedicine	The effect of hydroalcoholic extract of 	These findings suggest that the extract of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31309074	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309074	Alzheimer
Nature reviews. Neurology	Follow-up of active Aβ immunization in Alzheimer disease.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308505	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308505	Alzheimer
Neurology	Clinical phenotype, atrophy, and small vessel disease in 	 	2019	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31308169	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308169	Alzheimer
PloS one	Inhibition of Polo-like kinase 2 ameliorates pathogenesis in Alzheimer's disease model mice.	Alzheimer disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by pathological hallmarks of neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques. The plaques are formed by aggregation and accumulation of amyloid β (Aβ), a cleavage fragment of amyloid precursor protein (APP). Enhanced neuronal activity and seizure events are frequently observed in AD, and elevated synaptic activity promotes Aβ production. However, the mechanisms that link synaptic hyperactivity to APP processing and AD pathogenesis are not well understood. We previously found that Polo-like kinase 2 (Plk2), a homeostatic repressor of neuronal overexcitation, promotes APP β-processing in vitro. Here, we report that Plk2 stimulates Aβ production in vivo, and that Plk2 levels are elevated in a spatiotemporally regulated manner in brains of AD mouse models and human AD patients. Genetic disruption of Plk2 kinase function reduces plaque deposits and activity-dependent Aβ production. Furthermore, pharmacological Plk2 inhibition hinders Aβ formation, synapse loss, and memory decline in an AD mouse model. Thus, Plk2 links synaptic overactivity to APP β-processing, Aβ production, and disease-relevant phenotypes in vivo, suggesting that Plk2 may be a potential target for AD therapeutics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306446	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306446	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Prevalence of Biologically vs Clinically Defined Alzheimer Spectrum Entities Using the National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association Research Framework.	Results of this study suggest that biologically defined Alzheimer disease is more prevalent than clinically defined probable Alzheimer disease at any age and is 3 times more prevalent at age 85 years among both women and men. This difference is mostly driven by asymptomatic individuals with biological Alzheimer disease. These findings illustrate the magnitude of the consequences on public health that potentially exist by intervening with disease-specific treatments to prevent symptom onset.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305929	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305929	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Association of Extracellular Vesicle Biomarkers With Alzheimer Disease in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging.	We validated nEV biomarker candidates and further demonstrated that their preclinical longitudinal trajectories can predict AD diagnosis. These findings motivate further development of nEV biomarkers toward a clinical blood test for AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305918	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305918	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	The Challenge of Defining Alzheimer Disease Based on Biomarkers in the Absence of Symptoms.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305888	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305888	Alzheimer
Journal of neuropathology and experimental neurology	Plasma Neurofilament Light Chain Levels Are Associated With Cortical Hypometabolism in Alzheimer Disease Signature Regions.	Neurofilament light chain (NFL) has been recently introduced as a biomarker of early dementia. 18-Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG-PET) is a proxy for regional hypometabolism in Alzheimer disease (AD). Globally normalized 18F-FDG-PET values and levels of NFL and tau were obtained from 149 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) from the baseline cohort of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative database. We adopted a stepwise partial correlation model using plasma NFL, plasma tau, CSF NFL, and regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRGlc) as main variables, and age, sex, and Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale (ADAS) as covariates. Significant regions were entered into a stepwise multiple regression analysis to investigate the independent correlation of each biomarker to baseline regional CMRGlc and its progression in patients with MCI. Higher baseline CSF NFL levels correlated with hypometabolism in bilateral precuneal and posterior cingulate cortex. After correction for age, sex, and ADAS score, plasma NFL levels correlated with hypometabolism in bilateral parahippocampal and middle temporal gyri. Cortical hypometabolism in bilateral parahippocampal gyri and right fusiform and middle temporal gyri was independently predicted by higher baseline plasma NFL levels in a multiple regression model. Plasma NFL promises to be an early biomarker of cortical hypometabolism in MCI and for MCI progression to AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305887	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305887	Alzheimer
Alzheimer disease and associated disorders	VGF in Cerebrospinal Fluid Combined With Conventional Biomarkers Enhances Prediction of Conversion From MCI to AD.	CSF VGF enhances the ability of conventional biomarkers to predict MCI to AD conversion. Future work will be needed to determine the specificity of VGF for AD versus other neurodegenerative diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305322	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305322	Alzheimer
Alzheimer disease and associated disorders	Identifying an Optimal Cutoff of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment to Predict Amyloid-PET Positivity in a Referral Memory Clinic.	Amyloid-PET positivity is associated with lower MoCA scores. Clinical utility of amyloid-PET scan is likely to be suboptimal at the MoCA score cutoff for minimal cognitive impairment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305321	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305321	Alzheimer
Alzheimer disease and associated disorders	Type II Diabetes Interacts With Alzheimer Disease Risk Factors to Predict Functional Decline.	Participants with both diabetes and at least 1 AD risk factor (ie, Obj-SCD, APOE ε4, tau, and p-tau positivity) demonstrated faster functional decline compared with those without both risk factors (diabetes or AD). These findings have implications for early identification of, and perhaps earlier intervention for, diabetic individuals at risk for future functional difficulty.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305320	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305320	Alzheimer
Alzheimer disease and associated disorders	Association of TDP-43 Pathology With Domain-specific Literacy in Older Persons.	TDP-43 pathology is associated with lower health and financial literacy in old age, above and beyond AD pathology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305319	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305319	Alzheimer
Journal of biomolecular structure & dynamics	A molecular modeling study of components of the ginger (	We have reported before some docking, molecular dynamic simulations and mmpbsa studies of the interactions of four components from the ginger (Zingiber officinale) extracts with human acetylcholinesterase (HssAChE), former described as potential leads for the drug design against Alzheimer disease (AD). Here we moved forward on this study by performing the same theoretical studies, inside human butyrilcholinesterase (HssBChE), for two among the compounds studied before plus two other components of the ginger (Zingiber officinale) extracts, also pointed in literature as potential cholinesterase inhibitors. Our findings points to two compounds: (E)-1,7-bis(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)hept-4-en-3-one and 5-[(2S,4R,6R)-4-hydroxy-6-[2-(4-methoxyphenyl)ethyl]oxan-2-yl]-3-methoxybenzene-1,2-diol, as promising new BChE inhibitors (BChEI) that could be as effective as the known AChE inhibitor (AChEI) donepenzil (DNP). Besides, (E)-1,7-bis(4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl)hept-4-en-3-one showed to be promising as AChEI/BChEI. As before we also mapped the binding of the studied compounds on the different binding pockets inside HssBChE and established the preferred interactions to be favored in the design of new and more efficient inhibitors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304886	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304886	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Association of Lifespan Cognitive Reserve Indicator With Dementia Risk in the Presence of Brain Pathologies.	High lifespan CR is associated with a reduction in dementia risk, even in the presence of high brain pathologies. Our findings highlight the importance of lifespan CR accumulation in dementia prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302677	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302677	Alzheimer
Neuroscience	Early life stress amplifies fear responses and hippocampal synaptic potentiation in the APPswe/PS1dE9 Alzheimer mouse model.	Cognitive deficits and alterations in emotional behaviour are typical features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Moreover, exposure to stress or adversity during the early life period has been associated with an acceleration of cognitive deficits and increased AD pathology in transgenic AD mouse models. Whether and how early life adversity affects fear memory in AD mice remains elusive. We therefore investigated whether exposure to early life stress (ELS) alters fear learning in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice, a classic mouse model for AD, and whether this is accompanied by alterations in hippocampal synaptic potentiation, an important cellular substrate for learning and memory. Transgenic APPswe/PS1dE9 mice were subjected to ELS by housing the dams and her pups with limited nesting and bedding material from postnatal days 2-9. Following a fear conditioning paradigm, 12-month-old ELS-exposed APPswe/PS1dE9 mice displayed enhanced contextual freezing behaviour, both in the conditioning context and in a novel context. ELS-exposed APPswe/PS1dE9 mice also displayed enhanced hippocampal synaptic potentiation, even in the presence of the GluN2B antagonist Ro25-6981 (which prevented synaptic potentiation in control mice). No differences in the level of PSD-95 or synaptophysin were observed between the groups. We conclude that in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice, ELS increases fear memory in the conditioning context as well as a novel context, which is accompanied by aberrant hippocampal synaptic potentiation. These results may help to understand how individual differences in the vulnerability to develop AD arise and emphasise the importance of the early postnatal time window in these differences.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302265	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302265	Alzheimer
Journal of the American Geriatrics Society	Measuring Effects of Nondrug Interventions on Behaviors: Music & Memory Pilot Study.	Direct observations were most likely to capture behavioral responses, followed by staff interviews. Nursing-home based, pragmatic trials that rely solely on available administrative data may fail to detect effects of nonpharmaceutical interventions on behaviors. Findings are relevant to evaluations of nonpharmaceutical strategies for addressing behaviors in NHs, and will inform a large, National Institute on Aging-funded pragmatic trial beginning spring 2019.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301191	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301191	Alzheimer
BMC nephrology	Moderately increased albuminuria, chronic kidney disease and incident dementia: the HUNT study.	Our results strengthens the hypothesis that vascular mechanisms may affect both kidney and brain as an association between MA and dementia was found. However, eGFR was not significantly associated with dementia independent of diabetes mellitus or hypertension.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299931	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299931	Alzheimer
Environmental research	Combustion and friction-derived nanoparticles and industrial-sourced nanoparticles: The culprit of Alzheimer and Parkinson's diseases.	Redox-active, strongly magnetic, combustion and friction-derived nanoparticles (CFDNPs) are abundant in particulate matter air pollution. Urban children and young adults with Alzheimer disease Continuum have higher numbers of brain CFDNPs versus clean air controls. CFDNPs surface charge, dynamic magnetic susceptibility, iron content and redox activity contribute to ROS generation, neurovascular unit (NVU), mitochondria, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) damage, and are catalysts for protein misfolding, aggregation and fibrillation. CFDNPs respond to external magnetic fields and are involved in cell damage by agglomeration/clustering, magnetic rotation and/or hyperthermia. This review focus in the interaction of CFDNPs, nanomedicine and industrial NPs with biological systems and the impact of portals of entry, particle sizes, surface charge, biomolecular corona, biodistribution, mitochondrial dysfunction, cellular toxicity, anterograde and retrograde axonal transport, brain dysfunction and pathology. NPs toxicity information come from researchers synthetizing particles and improving their performance for drug delivery, drug targeting, magnetic resonance imaging and heat mediators for cancer therapy. Critical information includes how these NPs overcome all barriers, the NPs protein corona changes as they cross the NVU and the complexity of NPs interaction with soluble proteins and key organelles. Oxidative, ER and mitochondrial stress, and a faulty complex protein quality control are at the core of Alzheimer and Parkinson's diseases and NPs mechanisms of action and toxicity are strong candidates for early development and progression of both fatal diseases. Nanoparticle exposure regardless of sources carries a high risk for the developing brain homeostasis and ought to be included in the AD and PD research framework.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31299618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299618	Alzheimer
Journal of medical systems	Age Prediction Based on Brain MRI Image: A Survey.	Human age prediction is an interesting and applicable issue in different fields. It can be based on various criteria such as face image, DNA methylation, chest plate radiographs, knee radiographs, dental images and etc. Most of the age prediction researches have mainly been based on images. Since the image processing and Machine Learning (ML) techniques have grown up, the investigations were led to use them in age prediction problem. The implementations would be used in different fields, especially in medical applications. Brain Age Estimation (BAE) has attracted more attention in recent years and it would be so helpful in early diagnosis of some neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer, Parkinson, Huntington, etc. BAE is performed on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) images to compute the brain ages. Studies based on brain MRI shows that there is a relation between accelerated aging and accelerated brain atrophy. This refers to the effects of neurodegenerative diseases on brain structure while making the whole of it older. This paper reviews and summarizes the main approaches for age prediction based on brain MRI images including preprocessing methods, useful tools used in different research works and the estimation algorithms. We categorize the BAE methods based on two factors, first the way of processing MRI images, which includes pixel-based, surface-based, or voxel-based methods and second, the generation of ML algorithms that includes traditional or Deep Learning (DL) methods. The modern techniques as DL methods help MRI based age prediction to get results that are more accurate. In recent years, more precise and statistical ML approaches have been utilized with the help of related tools for simplifying computations and getting accurate results. Pros and cons of each research and the challenges in each work are expressed and some guidelines and deliberations for future research are suggested.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31297614	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297614	Alzheimer
Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Solution NMR structure and ligand identification of human Gas7 SH3 domain reveal a typical SH3 fold but a non-canonical ligand-binding mode.	Growth arrest specific 7 (Gas7) protein is a cytoskeleton regulator playing a crucial role in neural cell development and function, and has been implicated in Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia and cancers. In human, three Gas7 isoforms can be expressed from a single Gas7 gene, while only the longest isoform, hGas7c, possesses an SH3 domain at the N-terminus. To date, the structure and function of hGas7 SH3 domain are still unclear. Here, we reported the solution NMR structure of hGas7 SH3 domain (hGas7-SH3), which displays a typical SH3 β-barrel fold comprising five β-strands and one 3	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296381	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296381	Alzheimer
Biochimica et biophysica acta. Biomembranes	Substrate recognition and processing by γ-secretase.	The γ-secretase complex is composed of four membrane protein subunits, including presenilin as the catalytic component with aspartyl protease activity. The enzyme cleaves within the transmembrane domain of >70 different type I integral membrane proteins and has been dubbed "the proteasome of the membrane". The most studied substrates include the Notch family of receptors, involved in cell differentiation, and the amyloid precursor protein (APP), involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. A central mechanistic question is how γ-secretase recognizes helical transmembrane substrates and carries out processive proteolysis. Recent findings addressing substrate recognition and processing will be discussed, including the role of protease subunit nicastrin as a gatekeeper, the effects of Alzheimer-causing mutations in presenilin on processive proteolysis of APP, and evidence that three pockets in the active site (S1', S2', and S3') determine carboxypeptidase cleavage of substrate in intervals of three residues. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Molecular biophysics of membranes and membrane proteins.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31295475	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295475	Alzheimer
Brain research	Over-expression of miR-34a Induces Rapid Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's Disease-like Pathology.	Autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease (AD) is caused by rare mutations in one of three specific genes. This is in contrast to idiopathic, late-onset AD (LOAD), which has a more polygenetic risk profile and represents more than 95% of cases. Previously, we have demonstrated that increased expression of microRNA (miRNA)-34a (miR-34a) in AD brain targets genes linked to synaptic plasticity, energy metabolism, and resting state network activity. Here we report the generation of a heterozygous, conditional miR-34a overexpression mouse (miR-34aP	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31295467	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295467	Alzheimer
Frontiers in neuroscience	Alzheimer Disease Pathogenesis: Insights From Molecular and Cellular Biology Studies of Oligomeric Aβ and Tau Species.	Alzheimer disease (AD) represents an oncoming epidemic that without an effective treatment promises to exact extraordinary human and financial burdens. Studies of pathogenesis are essential for defining targets for discovering disease-modifying treatments. Past studies of AD neuropathology provided valuable, albeit limited, insights. Nevertheless, building on these findings, recent studies have provided an increasingly rich harvest of genetic, molecular and cellular data that are creating unprecedented opportunities to both understand and treat AD. Among the most significant are those documenting the presence within the AD brain of toxic oligomeric species of Aβ and tau. Existing data support the view that such species can propagate and spread within neural circuits. To place these findings in context we first review the genetics and neuropathology of AD, including AD in Down syndrome (AD-DS). We detail studies that support the existence of toxic oligomeric species while noting the significant unanswered questions concerning their precise structures, the means by which they spread and undergo amplification and how they induce neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. We conclude by offering a speculative synthesis for how oligomers of Aβ and tau initiate and drive pathogenesis. While 100 years after Alzheimer's first report there is much still to learn about pathogenesis and the discovery of disease-modifying treatments, the application of new concepts and sophisticated new tools are poised to deliver important advances for combatting AD.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31293377	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293377	Alzheimer
Psicothema	Semantic inhibition and dementia severity in Alzheimer's disease.	The Hayling task may be a useful tool for investigating control of inhibition in different stages of AD because different patterns of responses were observed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Spain	31292046	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292046	Alzheimer
Neurology	Determining clinically meaningful decline in preclinical Alzheimer disease.	A preclinical AD population declines to the cognitive performance of an early MCI population in 6 years. Slowing this rate of decline by 40%-50% delays clinically relevant impairment by 3 years-a potentially meaningful treatment effect. However, assuming a 40%-50% drug effect highlights the difficulties in preclinical AD trial design, as a more commonly assumed treatment effect of 25% results in a required sample size of 2,000/group. Designers of preclinical AD treatment trials need to prepare for larger and longer trials than are currently being considered. Interactions with Aβ status were inconsistent and not readily generalizable.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31289148	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289148	Alzheimer
Neurology	The search for meaning in preclinical Alzheimer disease clinical trials.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31289145	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289145	Alzheimer
Recent patents on food, nutrition & agriculture	Patents on insect-based feeds for animals including companion animals, and terrestrial and aquatic livestock in Korea.	The demand for alternative protein sources by the livestock industry has increased substantially. Therefore, insects are being promoted as a novel nutrient source in animal feed. As detailed in this review, eleven patents related to feeding insects to terrestrial animals including livestock and companion animals have been commercially applied. Six and eight of the patents have been used to produce poultry and fish, and crustacean feed, respectively. The most promising species for industrial feed production was the black soldier fly (Hermetia illucens), the mealworm (Tenebrio molitor), and the two-spotted cricket (Gryllus bimaculatus). Regarding research areas of the patents reviewed here, studies on the composition and optimal mixing ratio of feeds and on insect rearing, harvesting, and post-harvest technologies were mainly performed for the industrial mass production of safe and functional animal feeds containing insects. Continuous scientific innovations and improved processing technologies will aid further advancements in this field. Therefore, this review offers insights to identify directions of future research and provides information on different insect-based feedstuffs for animals including terrestrial livestock, fish and shellfish, and companion animals, as also discussed in various patents.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United Arab Emirates	31288733	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288733	Alzheimer
Global health promotion	Activos para la salud en cuidadores familiares de enfermos de Alzheimer: desarrollo de un mapa de activos para la salud.	El Alzheimer es la enfermedad más prevalente en mayores de 65 años, siendo una enfermedad neurodegenerativa progresiva. El cuidado de estas personas enfermas se sustenta, en la mayoría de los casos, desde el núcleo familiar, siendo éste quien sufre las consecuencias del cuidado. Tradicionalmente, el estudio y análisis de las personas cuidadoras se ha realizado desde perspectivas de déficit o negativas. El presente estudio introduce el modelo salutogénico y de activos para la salud, e intenta comprender el valor positivo del cuidado y la superación de las circunstancias adversas, a través de aquellas habilidades o recursos del cuidador o de su entorno que le ayudan a afrontar de forma positiva esta enfermedad. En el estudio participaron cuidadores familiares (	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288614	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288614	Alzheimer
American journal of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias	Immediate Benefit of Art on Pain and Well-Being in Community-Dwelling Patients with Mild Alzheimer's.	Our results revealed that both painting and singing interventions provide an immediate benefit on the patients' well-being.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31288544	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288544	Alzheimer
The British journal of radiology	Emerging advances of in vivo detection of chronic traumatic encephalopathy.	Limited data of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31287716	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287716	Alzheimer
JMIR formative research	Development and Usability of ADappt: Web-Based Tool to Support Clinicians, Patients, and Caregivers in the Diagnosis of Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer Disease.	Clinicians in a memory clinic setting can use ADappt, a Web-based tool, developed using multiphase design and co-creation, for support that includes an individually tailored interpretation of biomarker test results, communication of test results and risks to patients and their caregivers, and shared decision making on diagnostic testing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31287061	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287061	Alzheimer
Food and chemical toxicology : an international journal published for the British Industrial Biological Research Association	Neuroprotective activity of isoquinoline alkaloids from of Chilean Amaryllidaceae plants against oxidative stress-induced cytotoxicity on human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and mouse hippocampal slice culture.	In this study we evaluate the chemical composition and neuroprotective effects of alkaloid fractions of the Amaryllidaceae species Rhodophiala pratensis, Rhodolirium speciosum, Phycella australis and Phaedranassa lehmannii. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS) enable the identification of 41 known alkaloids. Rhodolirium speciosum and Rhodophiala pratensis were the most active extracts against acetylcholinesterase (AChE), with IC	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31283947	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283947	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Safety and Efficacy of Edonerpic Maleate for Patients With Mild to Moderate Alzheimer Disease: A Phase 2 Randomized Clinical Trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02079909.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282954	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282954	Alzheimer
JAMA internal medicine	Preclinical Alzheimer Disease-Early Diagnosis or Overdiagnosis?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282928	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282928	Alzheimer
Frontiers in pharmacology	Sleep and β-Amyloid Deposition in Alzheimer Disease: Insights on Mechanisms and Possible Innovative Treatments.	The growing interest in the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD) led investigators to identify modifiable risk and predictive factors useful to design early intervention strategies. The preclinical stage of AD is characterized by β-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation into amyloid plaques and tau phosphorylation and aggregation into neurofibrillary tangles. There is a consensus on the importance of sleep within this context: the bidirectional relationship between sleep and AD pathology is supported by growing evidence that proved that the occurrence of sleep changes starting from the preclinical stage of AD, many years before the onset of cognitive decline. Hence, we review the most recent studies on sleep disturbances related to Aβ and the effects of sleep deprivation on Aβ accumulation in animal and human models. We also discuss evidence on the role of sleep in clearing the brain of toxic metabolic by-products, with original findings of the clearance activity of the glymphatic system stimulated by sleep. Furthermore, starting from new recent advances about the relationship between slow-wave sleep (SWS) and Aβ burden, we review the results of recent electroencephalographic (EEG) studies in order to clarify the possible role of SWS component disruption as a novel mechanistic pathway through which Aβ pathology may contribute to cognitive decline and, conversely, the eventual useful role of SWS in facilitating Aβ clearance. Finally, we discuss some promising innovative, effective, low-risk, non-invasive interventions, although empirical evidence on the efficacy of sleep interventions in improving the course of AD is at the very beginning.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31281257	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281257	Alzheimer
International journal of epidemiology	Residential distance from high-voltage overhead power lines and risk of Alzheimer's dementia and Parkinson's disease: a population-based case-control study in a metropolitan area of Northern Italy.	The finding of a weak association between exposure to the extremely low-frequency magnetic field and neurodegenerative diseases suggests the continuation of research on this topic. Moreover, the low consistency between the results of the already existing studies emphasises the importance of increasingly refined study designs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31280302	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280302	Alzheimer
Developmental neurobiology	Down syndrome, Alzheimer disease and cerebral amyloid angiopathy: the complex triangle of brain amyloidosis.	Down syndrome (DS) is the main genetic cause of intellectual disability worldwide. The overexpression of the Amyloid Precursor Protein, present in chromosome 21, leads to β-amyloid deposition that results in Alzheimer disease (AD) and, in most cases, also to cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) neuropathology. People with DS invariably develop the neuropathological hallmarks of AD at the age of 40, and they are at an ultra high risk for suffering AD-related cognitive impairment thereafter. In the general population, cerebrovascular disease is a significant contributor to AD- related cognitive impairment, while in DS remains understudied. This review describes the current knowledge on cerebrovascular disease in DS and reviews the potential biomarkers that could be useful in the future studies, focusing on CAA. We also discuss available evidence on sporadic AD or other genetically determined forms of AD. We highlight the urgent need of large biomarker-characterized cohorts, including neuropathological correlations, to study the exact contribution of CAA and related vascular factors that play a role in cognition and occur with aging, their characterization and interrelationships. DS represents a unique context in which to perform these studies as this population is relatively protected from some conventional vascular risk factors and they develop significant CAA, DS represents a particular atheroma-free model to study AD-related vascular pathologies. Only deepening on these underlying mechanisms, new preventive and therapeutic strategies could be designed to improve the quality of life of this population and their caregivers and lead to new avenues of treatment also in the general AD population. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31278851	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278851	Alzheimer
The American journal of geriatric psychiatry : official journal of the American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry	Animal Models of Psychosis in Alzheimer Disease.	Psychosis in Alzheimer Disease (AD) represents a distinct clinicopathologic variant associated with increased cognitive and functional morbidity and an accelerated disease course. To date, extant treatments offer modest benefits with significant risks. The development of new pharmacologic treatments for psychosis in AD would be facilitated by validated preclinical models with which to test candidate interventions. The current review provides a brief summary of the process of validating animal models of human disease together with a critical analysis of the challenges posed in attempting to apply those standards to AD-related behavioral models. An overview of phenotypic analogues of human cognitive and behavioral impairments, with an emphasis on those relevant to psychosis, in AD-related mouse models is provided, followed by an update on recent progress in efforts to translate findings in the pathophysiology of psychotic AD into novel models. Finally, some future directions are suggested to expand the catalogue of psychosis-relevant phenotypes that may provide a sturdier framework for model development and targets for preclinical treatment outcomes.	2019	eng	Review	England	31278012	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278012	Alzheimer
Medicine	The effect of anti-dementia drugs on Alzheimer disease-induced cognitive impairment: A network meta-analysis.	Evaluation of the clinically common anti-dementia drugs using NMA affirmed the utility of cholinesterase inhibitors, especially donepezil, in alleviating cognitive dysfunction of patients with AD. This study may therefore help to inform the clinical selection of pharmacotherapeutic interventions addressing cognitive dysfunction in patients with AD.	2019	eng	Systematic Review	United States	31277107	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277107	Alzheimer
Protein science : a publication of the Protein Society	β-Amyloid Aggregation and Heterogeneous Nucleation.	In this article, we consider the role of heterogeneous nucleation in β-amyloid aggregation. Heterogeneous nucleation is more common, and occurs at lower levels of supersaturation than homogeneous nucleation. The nucleation period is also the stage at which most of the polymorphism of amyloids arises, this being one of the defining features of amyloids. We focus on several well-known heterogeneous nucleators of β-amyloid, including lipid surfaces, especially those enriched in gangliosides and cholesterol, and divalent metal ions. These two broad classes of nucleators affect β-amyloid particularly in light of the amphiphilicity of these peptides: the N-terminal region, which is largely polar and charged, contains the metal binding site, while the C-terminal region is aliphatic and is important in lipid binding. Notably, these two classes of nucleators can interact cooperatively, aggregation begetting greater aggregation. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31276610	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276610	Alzheimer
PloS one	Ambrosin, a potent NF-κβ inhibitor, ameliorates lipopolysaccharide induced memory impairment, comparison to curcumin.	Despite its poor bioavailability, curcumin is a promising natural polyphenol targeting NF-κβ. NF-κβ is a target for new therapeutics because it plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer disease (AD). In contrast, ambrsoin, a sesquiterpene lactone which is a potent NF-κβ inhibitor, is scarcely studied in AD models. The current work aims to assess the efficacy of ambrosin as a possible remedy for AD. In silico studies showed that bioavailability and BBB permeability could be favorable for ambrosin over curcumin. Memory impairment was induced in mice by single intraperitoneal injection of LPS (0.4 mg/kg). Treated groups received curcumin (100 mg/kg) or ambrosin at doses (5 or 10 mg/kg) for 7 days. Mice in treated groups showed a significant improvement in memory functions during Morris water maze and object recognition tests. Curcumin and ambrosin (10 mg/kg) inhibited the upsurge of NF-κβp65 transcript and protein levels. Consequently, downstream pro-inflammatory and nitrosative mediators were inhibited, namely, TNF-α, IL-1β, COX-2 and iNOS. BACE1 was inhibited, thereby reducing amyloid plaques (Aβ) deposition and eventually reducing inflammation and apoptosis of neurons as revealed by immunohistopathological examination. In conclusion, ambrosin can be repurposed as AD remedy after further pharmacokinetic/pharamacodynamic assessments. It could serve as an additional lead drug for AD therapeutics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31276550	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276550	Alzheimer
Frontiers in genetics	The Puerto Rico Alzheimer Disease Initiative (PRADI): A Multisource Ascertainment Approach.	The multisource ascertainment approach used in the PRADI study highlights the importance of enlisting a broad range of community resources and providers. Preliminary results provide important information about our cohort that will be useful as we move forward with ascertainment. We expect that results from the PRADI study will lead to a better understanding of genetic risk for AD among this population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31275353	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275353	Alzheimer
Dementia and geriatric cognitive disorders extra	Clinical Considerations in Physician-Assisted Death for Probable Alzheimer's Disease: Decision-Making Capacity, Anosognosia, and Suffering.	The clinical approach to a PAD request should consider the legal framework and the decision-making capacity, assess memory deficit awareness and the perception of suffering, and evaluate mental competency when considered pertinent.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31275347	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275347	Alzheimer
Journal of the American Association of Nurse Practitioners	An integrative review of system-level factors influencing dementia detection in primary care.	Results indicate considerable variation in the diagnostic accuracy of dementia by primary care providers. Missed or underdiagnosis of dementia results from organizational, provider, and patient factors.New treatments are under investigation that may slow the progression of AD much better than current therapy, emphasizing the need to improve early detection by clinicians, especially primary care NPs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31274678	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274678	Alzheimer
The Journal of comparative neurology	β-amyloid and tau pathology in the aging feline brain.	Domestic cats (Felis catus) are known to develop cognitive impairment, and several small series have demonstrated both β-amyloid and tau aggregation, including neurofibrillary tangles, with age, making them a promising physiologic model of Alzheimer disease (AD). We therefore report the largest feline autopsy cohort to date of 32 cats ranging from 1.5 to 22.1 years of age, with systematic neuropathologic assessment according to NIA-Alzheimer's Association Criteria. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections of brain were obtained retrospectively from cats autopsied at the Iowa State College of Veterinary Medicine. We found β-amyloid staining, predominantly in Cortical Layers IV and VI in 27 of the 32 cats used in the study, with four of these animals showing tau-positive tangles and neuropil threads. In 75% of these cases (3/4), tau deposition was limited to entorhinal cortex, while one case showed diffuse positive staining throughout the hippocampal formation and neocortex. This last case showed positive staining for all phospho-tau-specific antibodies tested, similar to the pattern seen in human AD. Interestingly, we saw a higher ratio of pretangles to tangles than that in human AD, and none of the cases showed neuritic plaques on any of the stains used. Our findings indicate that aging domestic cats spontaneously develop both β-amyloid and tau pathology similar, but not identical to that seen in human AD. This suggests that the domestic cat may serve as a potential model for mechanistic and therapeutic AD studies, but that additional research is needed to identify differences between the neuropathology of aging in humans and felines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31273784	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273784	Alzheimer
The Journal of biological chemistry	Humanization of the entire murine 	In cortical regions of brains from individuals with preclinical or clinical Alzheimer's disease (AD), extracellular amyloid-β (Aβ) deposition precedes the aggregation of pathological intracellular tau (the product of the gene 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31273083	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273083	Alzheimer
Systematic reviews	Measuring awareness in people with dementia: protocol for a scoping review.	This scoping review will provide an overview of the methods used to measure awareness in people with dementia, allowing comparison of the methods along with identification of validated measures. The methods or components will be appraised for potential clinical use, and gaps in research will be highlighted.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31272501	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272501	Alzheimer
Bioorganic chemistry	Investigation of potent inhibitors of cholinesterase based on thiourea and pyrazoline derivatives: Synthesis, inhibition assay and molecular modeling studies.	Owing to the desperate need of new drugs development to treat Alzheimer's ailment the synthesis of 1-aroyl-3-(5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazole-3-thioneaminylthioureas (2-6) starting from (4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazole-3-thiol) (1) and synthesis of 1-(3-(4-aminophenyl)-5-phenyl-4,5-dihydro-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-2-(4-isobutylphenyl)propan-1-one (7-9) starting from 2-(4-isobutylphenyl)propanehydrazide (a) with the cyclization with substituted chalcones (c-e) was carried out. To check the biological potential of the synthesized compounds, all were subjected to acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butrylcholinesterase (BChE) inhibition assays. The most potent and selective inhibitor for the acetylcholinesterase was compound 7 having an inhibitory concentration of 123 ± 51 nM, whereas, compound 6 was found as selective inhibitor of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) with an IC	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31271943	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31271943	Alzheimer
Journal of neuropathology and experimental neurology	Neuropathological Changes in Dementia With Lewy Bodies and the Cingulate Island Sign.	The cingulate island sign (CIS) refers to the relative sparing of metabolism in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) and represents an important biomarker in distinguishing dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) from Alzheimer disease (AD). The underlying basis of the CIS is unknown; therefore, our aim was to investigate which neurodegenerative changes underpin the formation of CIS. Using quantitative neuropathology, α-synuclein, phosphorylated Tau, and amyloid-β pathology was assessed in 12 DLB, 9 AD and 6 age-matched control patients in the anterior cingulate (ACC), midcingulate, PCC, precuneus/cuneus and parahippocampal gyrus. All participants had undergone 99mTc-hexamethylpropyleneamine oxime (HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography imaging during life to define the presence or absence of CIS. In the DLB group, no significant correlations were observed between CIS ratios and neurodegenerative pathology in PCC. In DLB, however, the ACC showed lower HMPAO uptake, as well as significantly higher α-synuclein and amyloid-β burden compared with PCC, possibly underlying the relative preservation of perfusion in PCC when compared with ACC. Our findings suggest that neurodegenerative pathology does not directly correlate with the CIS in DLB, and other metabolic or pathological changes are therefore more likely to be relevant for the development of the CIS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31271438	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31271438	Alzheimer
Swiss medical weekly	Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors combined with memantine for moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease: a meta-analysis.	Combination therapy had statistically significant effects on cognition and clinical global impression. The clinical relevance of these effects is uncertain. The overall QoE was very low. With the current evidence, it remains unclear whether combination therapy adds any benefit. Large pragmatic RCTs with long-term follow-up and focus on functional outcomes, delay in nursing home placement and adverse events are needed. &nbsp.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31270795	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270795	Alzheimer
Applied neuropsychology. Adult	Signs and symptoms method in neuropsychology: A preliminary investigation of a standardized clinical interview for assessment of cognitive decline in dementia.	Psychologists usually perform a preliminary assessment of the person's cognitive status through a brief interview conducted before the formal testing. However, this exam has not yet been standardized with ad hoc recommendations in psychology literature. In this work, a standard observational NeuroPsychological Examination (NPE) designed for psychologists was proposed, and its clinical effectiveness evaluated. The NPE was administered to patients referred to a neuropsychological service in a memory clinic over a 2-year period. The NPEs of the patients with Alzheimer dementia (AD), vascular dementia (VaD), and healthy controls (HC) were retrospectively retrieved. Comparisons among the three groups were conducted. Abnormalities/signs identified during the NPE in the AD and VaD groups are more numerous compared to those reported in the HC group. About 80% of HCs show none or only one abnormal sign. Vice versa, 87.5% of both AD and VaD patients show three or more abnormalities. Accordingly, the NPE has 0.88 (95%CI = 0.81-0.95) sensitivity and 0.95 (95%CI = 0.88-1.02) specificity for detecting cognitive decline when a cut-point of three or more signs is applied. Some significant differences also emerge on the number of pathological signs between AD and VaD patients. NPE is a promising tool with demonstrated diagnostic utility in dementia patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31269816	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269816	Alzheimer
Swiss medical weekly	Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors combined with memantine for moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease: a meta-analysis.	Combination therapy had statistically significant effects on cognition and clinical global impression. The clinical relevance of these effects is uncertain. The overall QoE was very low. With the current evidence, it remains unclear whether combination therapy adds any benefit. Large pragmatic RCTs with long-term follow-up and focus on functional outcomes, delay in nursing home placement and adverse events are needed. &nbsp.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31269225	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269225	Alzheimer
JAMA network open	Association Between Androgen Deprivation Therapy Use and Diagnosis of Dementia in Men With Prostate Cancer.	Among elderly patients with prostate cancer, ADT exposure was associated with subsequent diagnosis of Alzheimer disease or dementia over a follow-up period of at least 10 years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31268539	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268539	Alzheimer
JAMA otolaryngology-- head & neck surgery	Association of Midlife Hearing Impairment With Late-Life Temporal Lobe Volume Loss.	The findings suggest that midlife HI is a risk factor for temporal lobe volume loss. Poorer midlife hearing, particularly in the right ear, was associated with declines in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31268512	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268512	Alzheimer
Metabolic brain disease	Amyloid Beta 25-35 induces blood-brain barrier disruption in vitro.	The amyloid β-peptide (Aβ) is transported across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) by binding with the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE). Previously, we demonstrated that the Aβ fraction 25-35 (Aβ	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31267346	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31267346	Alzheimer
Journal of neurology	Prognostic value of Alzheimer's biomarkers in mild cognitive impairment: the effect of age at onset.	FDG-PET may represent the most universal tool for the establishment of a prognosis in MCI patients and may be used for obtaining an onset-related estimate of the time free from disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31267207	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31267207	Alzheimer
Journal of neurology	Test Your Memory (TYM test): diagnostic evaluation of patients with non-Alzheimer dementias.	The TYM test is a useful test in the detection of non-Alzheimer dementia. The TYM test performs much better than the MMSE at detecting non-Alzheimer dementias.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31267204	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31267204	Alzheimer
Neurology	Cognitive reserve and clinical progression in Alzheimer disease: A paradoxical relationship.	Among Aβ-positive individuals, greater CR related to attenuated clinical progression in predementia stages of AD, but accelerated cognitive decline after the onset of dementia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31266904	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266904	Alzheimer
The Journal of biological chemistry	Tau isoform-specific stabilization of intermediate states during microtubule assembly and disassembly.	The microtubule (MT)-associated protein tau regulates the critical growing and shortening behaviors of MTs, and its normal activity is essential for neuronal development and maintenance. Accordingly, aberrant tau action is tightly associated with Alzheimer's disease and is genetically linked to several additional neurodegenerative diseases known as tauopathies. While tau is known to promote net MT growth and stability, the precise mechanistic details governing its regulation of MT dynamics remain unclear. Here, we have used the slowly-hydrolyzable GTP analog, guanylyl-(α,β)-methylene-diphosphonate (GMPCPP), to examine the structural effects of tau at MT ends that may otherwise be too transient to observe. The addition of both four-repeat (4R) and 3R tau isoforms to pre-formed GMPCPP MTs resulted in the formation of extended, multi-protofilament-wide projections at MT ends. Further, at temperatures too low for assembly of bona fide MTs, both tau isoforms promoted the formation of long, spiral ribbons from GMPCPP tubulin heterodimers. In addition, GMPCPP MTs undergoing cold-induced disassembly in the presence of 4R tau (and to a much lesser extent 3R tau) also formed spirals. Finally, three pathological tau mutations known to cause neurodegeneration and dementia were differentially compromised in their abilities to stabilize MT disassembly intermediates. Taken together, we propose that tau promotes the formation/stabilization of intermediate states in MT assembly and disassembly by promoting both longitudinal and lateral tubulin-tubulin contacts. We hypothesize that these activities represent fundamental aspects of tau action that normally occur at the GTP-rich ends of GTP/GDP MTs and which may be compromised in neurodegeneration-causing tau variants.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31266806	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266806	Alzheimer
Alzheimer's research & therapy	An experimental model of Braak's pretangle proposal for the origin of Alzheimer's disease: the role of locus coeruleus in early symptom development.	Our animal model suggests, for the first time, that Braak's hypothesis that human AD originates with pretangle stages is plausible. LC pretangle progression here generates both preclinical AD pathological changes and cognitive decline. The odor discrimination deficits are similar to human odor identification deficits seen with aging and preclinical AD. When initiated in aged rats, pretangle stages progress rapidly and cause LC cell loss. These age-related outcomes are associated with a severe learning impairment consistent with memory decline in Braak stages III-IV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31266535	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266535	Alzheimer
BMC geriatrics	Effects of physical activity and exercise on the cognitive function of patients with Alzheimer disease: a meta-analysis.	As one of few meta-analyses comparing different quantities of physical activity and exercise interventions for AD in details, our study suggests that physical activity and exercise can improve cognition of older adults with AD. While the concomitant effects on cognition functions of high frequency interventions was not greater than that of low frequency interventions, the threshold remains to be settled. However, more RCTs with rigorous study design are needed to support our findings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31266451	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266451	Alzheimer
American journal of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias	The Efficacy of General Practitioner Assessment of Cognition in Chinese Elders Aged 80 and Older.	The GPCOG-C is a useful and efficient tool to identify dementia and MCI in older Chinese in outpatient clinical settings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31266345	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266345	Alzheimer
JAMA	For Alzheimer Pathology, Light and Sound Stimulation May Hold Promise.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31265079	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31265079	Alzheimer
Geriatrics & gerontology international	Relationship between blood coagulability and sense of burden among caregivers of patients with dementia.	The present study found that the number of chronic diseases and body mass index were associated with blood coagulability, and that female caregivers were more prone to headaches and higher blood coagulability than male caregivers. These findings highlight the essential nature of health management during caregiving. The impact of caregiver burden on blood coagulability is likely to differ depending on the long-term or short-term psychological stress associated with caregiving conditions. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2019; ••: ••-••.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31264332	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264332	Alzheimer
Frontiers in neuroscience	Microstates as Disease and Progression Markers in Patients With Mild Cognitive Impairment.	Network dysfunction is well established in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and has been shown to be present early in the disease. This is especially interesting in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) since they are more likely to develop AD. In EEG, one type of network analysis is microstates where the EEG is divided into quasi-stable states and these microstates have been linked to networks found with resting state functional MRI. In the current exploratory study, we therefore wanted to explore the changes in microstates in MCI, and AD compared to healthy controls (HC) and whether microstates were able to separate patients with MCI who progressed (pMCI) and those who remained stable (sMCI). EEGs were recorded at baseline for 17 patients with AD, 27 patients with MCI, and 38 older HC and the patients were followed for 3 years. To investigate whole-brain dynamics we extracted different microstate parameters. We found that patients with MCI, and AD had significantly higher occurrence (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31263397	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31263397	Alzheimer
The American journal of geriatric psychiatry : official journal of the American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry	Vitamin D and Psychosis in Alzheimer Disease: New Insights From Pharmacogenomics Research.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	England	31262684	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31262684	Alzheimer
The health care manager	Effects of Using Music Therapy for Patients Suffering From Dementia.	The purpose of this study was to discuss the mental and physical effects of using music therapy with patients suffering with dementia. Like any type of therapy, there are guidelines for measuring the effects. Music therapy can be used as a substitute for pharmaceuticals with dementia patients. The earlier the diagnosis and the earlier treatment commences for dementia patients, the more likely the treatment will work. Music therapy can reach the part of the brain where we hold memories, which is why it is used as a treatment option for dementia patients. Alzheimer disease and dementia are among the most expensive diseases to treat. However, if the onset of dementia can be delayed, money can be saved. Medicare does not require that music therapy be offered in assisted living, nursing homes, or hospices. Areas of cost savings were identified as use of medication, length of nursing visits, and number and length of home health-aid visits, which can all be measured in total cost savings. For health care managers, it is imperative that new therapies such as music therapy be applied in health care facilities that treat dementia patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31261197	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31261197	Alzheimer
International journal of tryptophan research : IJTR	Microorganisms, Tryptophan Metabolism, and Kynurenine Pathway: A Complex Interconnected Loop Influencing Human Health Status.	The kynurenine pathway is important in cellular energy generation and limiting cellular ageing as it degrades about 90% of dietary tryptophan into the essential co-factor NAD	2019	eng	Review	United States	31258331	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258331	Alzheimer
Current pharmaceutical biotechnology	Pesudomance sp. Bacteria Associated with Marine Sponge as a Promising and Sustainable Source of Bioactive Molecules.	The anti-inflammatory profiling using TNF, COX1, COX2, IL6 revealed also high anti-inflammatory activity with different metabolic pathway of 62.70, 75.444, 79.27 and 54.15 %; respectively. The present study concluded that ethyl acetate extract of pesudomance spp. Possessed strong antioxidant, anti-Alzheimer, and anti-viral, anticancer and anti-inflammatory activities. Further studies are required to purify the bioactive compounds.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31258072	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258072	Alzheimer
Drug and chemical toxicology	Tacrine and its 7-methoxy derivate; time-change concentration in plasma and brain tissue and basic toxicological profile in rats.	The search for tacrine derivatives, as potential Alzheimer´s disease treatment, is still being at the forefront of scientific efforts. 7-MEOTA was found to be a potent, centrally active acetylcholinesterase inhibitor free of the serious side effects observed for tacrine. Unfortunately, a relevant argumentation about pharmacokinetics and potential toxicity is incomplete; information about tacrine derivatives absorption and especially CNS penetration are still rare as well as detailed toxicological profile 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31257938	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31257938	Alzheimer
Cell	Lipid-Associated Macrophages Control Metabolic Homeostasis in a Trem2-Dependent Manner.	Immune cells residing in white adipose tissue have been highlighted as important factors contributing to the pathogenesis of metabolic diseases, but the molecular regulators that drive adipose tissue immune cell remodeling during obesity remain largely unknown. Using index and transcriptional single-cell sorting, we comprehensively map all adipose tissue immune populations in both mice and humans during obesity. We describe a novel and conserved Trem2	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31257031	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31257031	Alzheimer
The American journal of psychiatry	Predicting Risk for Dementia: Is It Ready for the Clinic?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31256623	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31256623	Alzheimer
Nature reviews. Neurology	The pro-remyelination properties of microglia in the central nervous system.	Microglia are resident macrophages of the CNS that are involved in its development, homeostasis and response to infection and damage. Microglial activation is a common feature of neurological disorders, and although in some instances this activation can be damaging, protective and regenerative functions of microglia have been revealed. The most prominent example of the regenerative functions is a role for microglia in supporting regeneration of myelin after injury, a process that is critical for axonal health and relevant to numerous disorders in which loss of myelin integrity is a prevalent feature, such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer disease and motor neuron disease. Although drugs that are intended to promote remyelination are entering clinical trials, the mechanisms by which remyelination is controlled and how microglia are involved are not completely understood. In this Review, we discuss work that has identified novel regulators of microglial activation - including molecular drivers, population heterogeneity and turnover - that might influence their pro-remyelination capacity. We also discuss therapeutic targeting of microglia as a potential approach to promoting remyelination.	2019	eng	Review	England	31256193	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31256193	Alzheimer
Journal of medical Internet research	The Symptoms Targeted for Monitoring in a Web-Based Tracking Tool by Caregivers of People With Dementia and Agitation: Cross-Sectional Study.	NPSs and agitation are common targets for tracking over the course of dementia and appear more frequently with increasing disease severity. These common and distressing symptoms represent clinically meaningful targets in treating people with dementia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31254339	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31254339	Alzheimer
International journal of molecular sciences	Extracellular RNAs as Biomarkers of Sporadic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and Other Neurodegenerative Diseases.	Recent progress in the research for underlying mechanisms in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer disease (AD), Parkinson disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has led to the development of potentially effective treatment, and hence increased the need for useful biomarkers that may enable early diagnosis and therapeutic monitoring. The deposition of abnormal proteins is a pathological hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases, including β-amyloid in AD, α-synuclein in PD, and the transactive response DNA/RNA binding protein of 43kDa (TDP-43) in ALS. Furthermore, progression of the disease process accompanies the spreading of abnormal proteins. Extracellular proteins and RNAs, including mRNA, micro RNA, and circular RNA, which are present as a composite of exosomes or other forms, play a role in cell-cell communication, and the role of extracellular molecules in the cell-to-cell spreading of pathological processes in neurodegenerative diseases is now in the spotlight. Therefore, extracellular proteins and RNAs are considered potential biomarkers of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular ALS, in which RNA dysregulation has been shown to be involved in the pathogenesis. Here, we review extracellular proteins and RNAs that have been scrutinized as potential biomarkers of neurodegenerative diseases, and discuss the possibility of extracellular RNAs as diagnostic and therapeutic monitoring biomarkers of sporadic ALS.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31252669	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31252669	Alzheimer
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	Altered SPMs and age-associated decrease in brain DHA in 	An apolipoprotein E (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31251078	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31251078	Alzheimer
Frontiers in neurology	Temporal Lobe Cavernous Malformation Caused Epileptic Amnesic Episodes and Mild Cognitive Impairment.	Neuropathological features in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are amyloid β (Aβ) deposits and neurofibrillary changes. AD is characterized by memory impairment and cognitive dysfunction, with some reports associating these impairments with hyperexcitability caused by Aβ in the medial temporal lobe. Epileptic seizures are known to be common in AD. We encountered a 65-year-old patient with cavernous malformation (CM) in the right temporal lobe who exhibited epileptic amnesia (EA) and AD-like symptoms. Scalp electroencephalography (EEG), including long-term video-EEG, showed no interictal discharges, but intraoperative subdural electrode (SE) recording from the right parahippocampal area showed frequent epileptiform discharges. Neuropathologically, senile plaques were found in the surrounding normal cortex of the CM. Postoperatively, the patient has remained free of EA and AD-like symptoms since total removal of the CM. This is the first surgical case report to confirm temporal lobe hyperexcitability associated with EA and AD-like symptoms.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Switzerland	31249550	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31249550	Alzheimer
The Journal of biological chemistry	Endothelin type B receptor promotes cofilin rod formation and dendritic loss in neurons by inducing oxidative stress and cofilin activation.	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a neuroactive peptide produced by neurons, reactive astrocytes and endothelial cells in the brain. Elevated level of ET-1 has been detected in the post-mortem brain of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have previously demonstrated that overexpression of astrocytic ET-1 exaggerates memory deficits in aged mice or in APP	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31248984	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31248984	Alzheimer
The American journal of geriatric psychiatry : official journal of the American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry	Social Engagement and Amyloid-β-Related Cognitive Decline in Cognitively Normal Older Adults.	Low social engagement may be a marker of neurocognitive vulnerability in older adults who are cognitively normal but have evidence of AD pathophysiologic change. Understanding changes in social engagement in older adults may lead to earlier diagnosis of AD and advances in evidence-based prevention and treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31248770	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31248770	Alzheimer
Frontiers in psychology	Canine-Assisted Therapy and Quality of Life in People With Alzheimer-Type Dementia: Pilot Study.	Our study provides evidence of the significant benefits of canine-assisted therapy for quality of life in people with Alzheimer's disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31244731	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31244731	Alzheimer
Human brain mapping	Characterization of a temporoparietal junction subtype of Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) subtypes have been described according to genetics, neuropsychology, neuropathology, and neuroimaging. Thirty-one patients with clinically probable AD were selected based on perisylvian metabolic decrease on FDG-PET. They were compared to 25 patients with a typical pattern of decreased posterior metabolism. Tree-based machine learning was used on those 56 images to create a classifier that was subsequently applied to 207 Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) patients with AD. Machine learning was also used to discriminate between the two ADNI groups based on neuropsychological scores. Compared to AD patients with a typical precuneus metabolic decrease, the new subtype showed stronger hypometabolism in the temporoparietal junction. The classifier was able to distinguish the two groups in the ADNI population. Both groups could only be distinguished cognitively by Trail Making Test-A scores. This study further confirms that there is more than a typical metabolic pattern in probable AD with amnestic presentation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31243829	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31243829	Alzheimer
Der Nervenarzt	[Did Alzheimer research fail entirely? : Failure of amyloid-based clinical studies].	Numerous amyloid-based clinical studies have recently failed. Does this mean that the mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease have to be reinvestigated and that amyloid is not the trigger of the disease? Strong genetic evidence from familial Alzheimer's disease contradicts this fatalistic opinion. Mutations in all genes associated with familial Alzheimer's disease affect amyloid metabolism and aggregation. Moreover, a protective mutation reduces amyloid production by 20-30% throughout the lifetime. Clinical studies rather failed because secretase inhibitors block cleavage of numerous other physiologically important substrates of secretases. Moreover, the disease is initiated decades before symptoms occur. Successful treatment attempts with anti-amyloid medication based on other prototype amyloidoses are described. Finally, new therapeutic target molecules expressed in microglia cells are discussed.	2019	ger	Review	Germany	31243509	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31243509	Alzheimer
Pharmacological reviews	5-HT	5-HT	2019	eng	Review	United States	31243157	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31243157	Alzheimer
Cell reports	Early Seizure Activity Accelerates Depletion of Hippocampal Neural Stem Cells and Impairs Spatial Discrimination in an Alzheimer's Disease Model.	Adult hippocampal neurogenesis has been reported to be decreased, increased, or not changed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and related transgenic mouse models. These disparate findings may relate to differences in disease stage, or the presence of seizures, which are associated with AD and can stimulate neurogenesis. In this study, we investigate a transgenic mouse model of AD that exhibits seizures similarly to AD patients and find that neurogenesis is increased in early stages of disease, as spontaneous seizures became evident, but is decreased below control levels as seizures recur. Treatment with the antiseizure drug levetiracetam restores neurogenesis and improves performance in a neurogenesis-associated spatial discrimination task. Our results suggest that seizures stimulate, and later accelerate the depletion of, the hippocampal neural stem cell pool. These results have implications for AD as well as any disorder accompanied by recurrent seizures, such as epilepsy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31242408	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31242408	Alzheimer
Ideggyogyaszati szemle	The prevalence of sarcopenia and dynapenia according to stage among Alzheimer-type dementia patients.	A krónikus, progresszív betegségek esetén, amilyen az AD is, fontos a különböző élettani paraméterek - például izomtömeg, izomerő, fizikai teljesítőképesség - romlásának korai stádiumban való azonosítása, és a szekunder prevenció mielőbbi elkezdése.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Hungary	31241261	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31241261	Alzheimer
Current aging science	Fuzzy Classification Methods Based Diagnosis of Parkinson's disease from Speech Test Cases.	Together with Alzheimer, Parkinson's disease is considered as one of two serious known neurodegenerative diseases. Physicians find it hard to predict whether a given patient has already developed or is expected to develop the Parkinson's disease in the future. To overcome this difficulty, it is possible to develop some computing model which analyzes the data related to a given patient and predicts with acceptable accuracy where he/she will develop the Parkinson's disease. This paper contributes an attractive prediction framework based on some machine learning approaches. Several fuzzy classifiers have been employed in the process to recognize PWP (people with Parkinsonism) from healthy individuals. The fuzzy classified utilized in this study have been tested using the "Parkinson Speech Dataset with Multiple Types of Sound Recordings Data Set" available from UCI repository [1]. The results reported by the study described in this paper are better than the results reported in [1], where the same dataset was used but with different classifiers. This demonstrate the applicability and effectiveness of fuzzy classification as compared to non-fuzzy classifiers used in [1].	2019	eng	Journal Article	United Arab Emirates	31241024	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31241024	Alzheimer
Molecular neurobiology	A Systematic Review of MicroRNA Expression as Biomarker of Late-Onset Alzheimer's Disease.	Late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) is a high-occurrence neurological disorder but the difficulty in identifying precise and early biomarkers has complicated the understanding of the disease and the development of new treatments. In this sense, important knowledge is emerging regarding novel molecular and biological candidates with diagnostic potential, including microRNAs (miRNAs), which have a key role in gene repression. The aim of this systematic review was to define the role of miRNAs' expression as biomarkers for LOAD both in brain tissues, which could help understand the biology of the disease, and circulating tissues, which could serve as non-invasive markers of the pathology. A systematic search was performed in Web of Science and PubMed using the keywords ((Alzheimer or Alzheimer's) and (microRNA or microRNAs or miRNA or miRNAs or miR)) until August 2018 to retrieve all articles that presented independent original data evaluating the impact of miRNA expression on the development of LOAD in human population. A total of 90 studies investigating the role of miRNAs' expression in the development of LOAD were identified. While other widely studied miRNAs such as hsa-miR-146a presented contradictory results among studies, deregulation in brain tissue of seven miRNAs, hsa-miR-16-5p, hsa-miR-34a-5p, hsa-miR-107, hsa-miR-125-5p, hsa-miR-132-3p, hsa-miR-181-3p, and hsa-miR-212-3p, was consistently identified in LOAD patients. Their role in the disease could be mediated through the regulation of key pathways, such as axon guidance, longevity, insulin, and MAPK signaling pathway. However, regarding their role as non-invasive biomarkers of LOAD in fluids, although the limited results available are promising, further studies are required.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31240600	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31240600	Alzheimer
Neurological sciences : official journal of the Italian Neurological Society and of the Italian Society of Clinical Neurophysiology	Dietary pattern in relation to the risk of Alzheimer's disease: a systematic review.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease leading to a gradual and irreversible loss of memory, linguistic skills, and perception of time and space, thinking, and behavior. Dietary pattern has been presented as a contributor to the incidence of Alzheimer's. This study aimed at reviewing the evidence on the relation between dietary pattern and AD. This systematic search was performed on the articles available in PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Sciences databases until May 2019 using keywords, including (diet, food, dietary pattern, food pattern) and (Alzheimer's disease) among observational studies. After excluding duplicated, and irrelevant studies, 26 studies were eligible for this review study. We categorized the studied dietary patterns into two groups: healthy and unhealthy diet. This study reviewed two case-control, five cross-sectional, and 19 prospective studies. Eight studies assessed unhealthy diet (high-fat diet, high-glycemic diet, sweetened sugary beverage, etc.) and the risk of AD. In addition, the other studies considered the effect of healthy diet such as Mediterranean diet, dietary approaches to stop hypertension (DASH), Mediterranean-DASH intervention for neurodegenerative delay, and seafood-rich diet on AD. This literature review indicated that adherence to a healthy dietary pattern has neuroprotective effects on AD prevention, while unhealthy diet can cause neurodegenerative effects in AD etiology. In conclusion, our findings showed that adherence to healthy diet can decrease oxidative stress and inflammation and accumulation of amyloid-β and consequently can decrease the risk of AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31240575	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31240575	Alzheimer
BMJ open	How many patients are eligible for disease-modifying treatment in Alzheimer's disease? A French national observational study over 5 years.	AD was not frequently diagnosed at a prodromal or mild dementia stage in France in 2014 to 2018. Diagnosis rarely relied on a pathophysiological marker even in expert memory centres. National databases will be valuable to monitor early stage AD diagnosis efficacy in memory centres when a disease-modifying treatment becomes available.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31239309	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31239309	Alzheimer
Autophagy	PLA2G4A/cPLA2-mediated lysosomal membrane damage leads to inhibition of autophagy and neurodegeneration after brain trauma.	Lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) is observed under many pathological conditions, leading to cellular dysfunction and death. However, the mechanisms by which lysosomal membranes become leaky 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31238788	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31238788	Alzheimer
PloS one	Abelmoschus esculentus subfractions attenuate beta amyloid-induced neuron apoptosis by regulating DPP-4 with improving insulin resistance signals.	The association of Alzheimer disease (AD) and Diabetes (DM) is less clear. Accumulation of beta amyloid (Aβ) and presence of hyperphosphorylated tau (p-tau) are hallmarks of AD, spreading in the region where insulin receptors are also found. Aβ exerts neuron toxicity, and could disturb insulin signaling of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3β and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), but increase IRS-1-Ser307 phosphorylation which is viewed as insulin resistance marker. Previously we reported dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) mediate insulin resistance signals, and Abelmoschus esculentus (AE) subfractions F1 (rich in quercetin glucosides and triterpene ester) and F2 (containing large amount of polysaccharides) attenuate DPP-4-mediated apoptosis. In the present study, we aim to investigate if Aβ induce neuron death by regulating DPP-4 and insulin resistance signals, and the putative effect of F1 and F2. By MTT, microscopy, and Western blotting, we demonstrate treatment of appropriate doses of AE subfractions prevent Aβ-induced neuron apoptosis. F1 attenuate Aβ-induced caspase 3 expression especially at 25 μg/mL, while F2 attenuate caspase 3 activation even at the low dose of 1 μg/mL. Both AE subfractions decrease Aβ-enhanced DPP-4, but increase Aβ-reduced p-AMPK and p-PI3K. The activity analysis reveals that F2 is more valid than F1 to reduce DPP-4 activity. The inhibition of DPP-4 demonstrates it plays the pivotal role in Aβ-induced neuron apoptosis. Moreover, although both F1 and F2 are effective to inhibit p-IRS-1-Ser307, F2 takes advantage to reduce p-Tau while F1 is superior to enhance p-GSK-3β. This implies AE subfractions act on different targets, and could be developed respectively. In conclusion, we demonstrate AE is potential to prevent Aβ-induced neuron damage by regulating DPP-4 and the insulin resistance cascades. AE could be an adjuvant to protect neuron degenerative disease related to Aβ and insulin resistance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31237881	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31237881	Alzheimer
PloS one	Faster cognitive decline in dementia due to Alzheimer disease with clinically undiagnosed Lewy body disease.	The probable cause of LBD clinical detection failure is the lack of a sufficient set of characteristic core clinical features. Core DLB clinical features were not more common in AD-LB as compared to ADD. Clinical identification of ADD with LBD would allow stratified analyses of ADD clinical trials, potentially improving the probability of trial success.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31237877	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31237877	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Performance of Fully Automated Plasma Assays as Screening Tests for Alzheimer Disease-Related β-Amyloid Status.	Plasma Aβ42 and Aβ40 measured using Elecsys immunoassays predict Aβ status in all stages of AD with similar accuracy in a validation cohort. Their accuracy can be further increased by analyzing APOE genotype. Potential future applications of these blood tests include prescreening of Aβ positivity in clinical AD trials to lower the costs and number of positron emission tomography scans or lumbar punctures.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31233127	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31233127	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Blood Biomarkers for Use in Alzheimer Disease-Moving From "If" to "How?"	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31233119	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31233119	Alzheimer
JAMA internal medicine	Preventing Alzheimer Disease by Deprescribing Anticholinergic Medications.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31233087	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31233087	Alzheimer
Journal of managed care & specialty pharmacy	The Real-World Medicare Costs of Alzheimer Disease: Considerations for Policy and Care.	Funding for this project was provided by the Alliance for Aging Research, which received funding from Biogen, Eli Lilly, and Janssen Pharmaceuticals. Peschin and Jenkins are employed by the Alliance for Aging Research. Scott was employed by the Alliance for Aging Research at the time of this study and also reports consulting fees from Piramal Imaging, General Electric, and Allergan, outside of this study. Scott is chair of the Board of Directors for the Alliance for Aging Research, which is a volunteer position, and is also president of Applied Policy, a health policy and reimbursement consultancy. Pyenson and Steffens are employed by Milliman, which was contracted to work on this study. Goss Sawhney and Rotter were employed by Milliman at the time this work was performed. Milliman is a consultant to thousands of organizations in the health care industry.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31232206	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31232206	Alzheimer
Journal of psychiatry & neuroscience : JPN	Magnetic resonance imaging texture predicts progression to dementia due to Alzheimer disease earlier than hippocampal volume	Textures of the hippocampus, precuneus and posterior cingulate cortex predicted conversion from MCI to Alzheimer disease at an earlier time point and with higher accuracy than hippocampal volume.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31228173	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31228173	Alzheimer
JAMA network open	Rate of Memory Change Before and After Cancer Diagnosis.	In this study, older individuals who developed cancer had better memory and slower memory decline than did similarly aged individuals who remained cancer free. These findings support the possibility of a common pathologic process working in opposite directions in cancer and Alzheimer disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31225893	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31225893	Alzheimer
JAMA network open	Association of Estradiol and Visceral Fat With Structural Brain Networks and Memory Performance in Adults.	This study reports a novel association between VAT, estradiol, and structural brain networks as a potential mechanism underlying cognitive decline in women. These findings appear to highlight the need for sex-specific strategies, including VAT and hormonal screening during midlife, to support healthy cognitive aging.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31225892	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31225892	Alzheimer
JAMA network open	More Evidence of an Inverse Association Between Cancer and Alzheimer Disease.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31225887	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31225887	Alzheimer
Cell stress	Making the final cut: pathogenic amyloid-β peptide generation by γ-secretase.	Alzheimer´s disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease of the elderly population. Genetic evidence strongly suggests that aberrant generation and/or clearance of the neurotoxic amyloid-β peptide (Aβ) is triggering the disease. Aβ is generated from the amyloid precursor protein (APP) by the sequential cleavages of β- and γ-secretase. The latter cleavage by γ-secretase, a unique and fascinating four-component protease complex, occurs in the APP transmembrane domain thereby releasing Aβ species of 37-43 amino acids in length including the longer, highly pathogenic peptides Aβ42 and Aβ43. The lack of a precise understanding of Aβ generation as well as of the functions of other γ-secretase substrates has been one factor underlying the disappointing failure of γ-secretase inhibitors in clinical trials, but on the other side also been a major driving force for structural and in depth mechanistic studies on this key AD drug target in the past few years. Here we review recent breakthroughs in our understanding of how the γ-secretase complex recognizes substrates, of how it binds and processes β-secretase cleaved APP into different Aβ species, as well as the progress made on a question of outstanding interest, namely how clinical AD mutations in the catalytic subunit presenilin and the γ-secretase cleavage region of APP lead to relative increases of Aβ42/43. Finally, we discuss how the knowledge emerging from these studies could be used to therapeutically target this enzyme in a safe way.	2019	eng	Review	Austria	31225454	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31225454	Alzheimer
Current developments in nutrition	Blood-based Nutritional Risk Index for Cognition in the Nutrition and Brain Aging Study (NBAS): Emphasis on n-3 PUFA, Vitamin D and Homocysteine (P14-005-19).	Nestle Institute of Health Sciences, Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research, NIA-Layton Aging & Alzheimer Disease Center, Department of Veterans Affairs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31224539	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31224539	Alzheimer
Autophagy	MAPT/Tau accumulation represses autophagy flux by disrupting IST1-regulated ESCRT-III complex formation: a vicious cycle in Alzheimer neurodegeneration.	Macroautophagy/autophagy deficit induces intracellular MAPT/tau accumulation, the hallmark pathology in Alzheimer disease (AD) and other tauopathies; however, the reverse role of MAPT accumulation in autophagy and neurodegeneration is not clear. Here, we found that overexpression of human wild-type full-length MAPT, which models MAPT pathologies as seen in sporadic AD patients, induced autophagy deficits 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31223056	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31223056	Alzheimer
Bratislavske lekarske listy	Copper and copper nanoparticles toxicity and their impact on basic functions in the body.	Copper is a biogenic metal having multiple functions in basic processes in organisms and it is common in all kingdoms of life. Limited intake of copper is a problem; however, doses of copper exceeding the recommended alimentary source are problematic as well and toxicity is soon manifested. Impact of copper nanoparticles on human health is another serious issue taken into consideration in this review. Regarding to copper toxicity, neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases are suspected to be linked to copper toxicity or copper can contribute to their progression. Wilson and Menke diseases are also described as examples of copper intolerance. This paper is focused on the description, literature survey and discussion of the current knowledge about copper and copper nanoparticles toxicity and their involvement in various pathological processes (Tab. 6, Fig. 2, Ref. 171). Keywords: reactive oxygen species; Alzheimer disease; acetylcholinesterase; copper; Fenton reaction; disorder; heavy metal; pollution; nanoparticle.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Slovakia	31223019	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31223019	Alzheimer
Scientific reports	Cardiovascular alterations in rats with Parkinsonism induced by 6-OHDA and treated with Domperidone.	After Alzheimer, Parkinson disease (PD) is the most frequently occurring progressive, degenerative neurological disease. It affects both sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems in a variable fashion. Cardiovascular symptoms are present in almost all stages of PD and narrower heart rate variability is the earliest sign. Administration of Levodopa to PD patients has proven to provide some degree of neurological protection. This drug, however, causes side effects including nausea and vomiting, lessened by the administration of domperidone. Autopsies in PD patients led some researchers to suggest the involvement of the ventricular arrhythmia induced by domperidone. The aim of the present study was to determine the impact of the adjusted human maximal dose of domperidone, on cardiological features of Wistar rats. domperidone was administered to both 6-hydroxydopamine Parkinsonism models and regular Wistar rats. Quantitative analysis of ranges of heart beat variation showed significant abnormal distribution in both groups receiving domperidone as compared with respective sham counterparts. However, qualitative analysis of Poincaré plots showed that 6-hydroxydopamine Parkinsonism models receiving domperidone had the narrowest full range of heart beat and the worst distribution heart beat ranges as compared with all study groups corroborating with previous suggestion that domperidone administration to PD patients is likely to play a role in sudden unexpected death in this group of patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31222185	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31222185	Alzheimer
Nature reviews. Neurology	SILK studies - capturing the turnover of proteins linked to neurodegenerative diseases.	Alzheimer disease (AD) is one of several neurodegenerative diseases characterized by dysregulation, misfolding and accumulation of specific proteins in the CNS. The stable isotope labelling kinetics (SILK) technique is based on generating amino acids labelled with naturally occurring stable (that is, nonradioactive) isotopes of carbon and/or nitrogen. These labelled amino acids can then be incorporated into proteins, enabling rates of protein production and clearance to be determined in vivo and in vitro without the use of radioactive or chemical labels. Over the past decade, SILK studies have been used to determine the turnover of key pathogenic proteins amyloid-β (Aβ), tau and superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) in the cerebrospinal fluid of healthy individuals, patients with AD and those with other neurodegenerative diseases. These studies led to the identification of several factors that alter the production and/or clearance of these proteins, including age, sleep and disease-causing genetic mutations. SILK studies have also been used to measure Aβ turnover in blood and within brain tissue. SILK studies offer the potential to elucidate the mechanisms underlying various neurodegenerative disease mechanisms, including neuroinflammation and synaptic dysfunction, and to demonstrate target engagement of novel disease-modifying therapies.	2019	eng	Review	England	31222062	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31222062	Alzheimer
BMJ open	Effectiveness of interventions for dementia in low- and middle-income countries: protocol for a systematic review, pairwise and network meta-analysis.	CRD42018106206.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31221887	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31221887	Alzheimer
eNeuro	Prodromes and Preclinical Detection of Brain Diseases: Surveying the Ethical Landscape of Predicting Brain Health.	The future of medicine lies in disease modification and prevention. The science of preclinical detection is young, but moving rapidly. Preclinical interventions offer the hope to decrease the severity of a disease or delay the development of a disorder substantially. With such promise, the research and practice of detecting brain disorders at a preclinical stage present unique ethical challenges, challenges that must be addressed to ensure the benefit of these technologies. Direct brain interventions have potential to impact not just what a patient has but who they are and who they could become. Further receiving an assessment for a preclinical or prodromal state has potential to impact perceptions about capacity, autonomy and personhood and could become entangled with stigma and discrimination. Discussion of the risks and benefits of the emerging technology will focus on how to ensure beneficence by presenting the limitations of preclinical detection and by contextualizing the risk associated with preclinical status. Exploring ethical issues alongside and integrated into the experimental design and research of these technologies is critical. This review will highlight ethical issues attendant to the current and near future states of preclinical detection across the life span, specifically as it relates to autism spectrum disorder (ASD), schizophrenia, and Alzheimer's disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31221862	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31221862	Alzheimer
Journal of neuroinflammation	A co-ultramicronized palmitoylethanolamide/luteolin composite mitigates clinical score and disease-relevant molecular markers in a mouse model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.	The present results demonstrate that the intraperitoneal administration of the composite PEALut significantly reduces the development of clinical signs in the MOG	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31221190	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31221190	Alzheimer
The Australian and New Zealand journal of psychiatry	A pilot study of the utility of cerebrospinal fluid neurofilament light chain in differentiating neurodegenerative from psychiatric disorders: A 'C-reactive protein' for psychiatrists and neurologists?	Cerebrospinal fluid neurofilament light shows promise as a diagnostic test to assist with the often challenging diagnostic dilemma of distinguishing psychiatric disorders from neurodegenerative and neurological disorders. Further studies are warranted to replicate and expand on these findings, including on plasma neurofilament light.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31220922	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31220922	Alzheimer
Life sciences	Roles of taurine in cognitive function of physiology, pathologies and toxication.	Taurine is a key functional amino acid with many functions in the nervous system. The effects of taurine on cognitive function have aroused increasing attention. First, the fluctuations of taurine and its transporters are associated with cognitive impairments in physiology and pathology. This may help diagnose and treat cognitive impairment though mechanisms are not fully uncovered in existing studies. Then, taurine supplements in cognitive impairment of different physiologies, pathologies and toxicologies have been demonstrated to significantly improve and restore cognition in most cases. However, elevated taurine level in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by exogenous administration causes cognition retardations only in physiologically sensitive period between the perinatal to early postnatal period. In this review, taurine levels are summarized in different types of cognitive impairments. Subsequently, the effects of taurine supplements on cognitions in physiology, different pathologies and toxication of cognitive impairments (e.g. aging, Alzheimer' disease, streptozotocin (STZ)-induced brain damage, ischemia model, mental disorder, genetic diseases and cognitive injuries of pharmaceuticals and toxins) are analyzed. These data suggest that taurine can improve cognition function through multiple potential mechanisms (e.g. restoring functions of taurine transporters and γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptors subunit; mitigating neuroinflammation; up-regulating Nrf2 expression and antioxidant capacities; activating Akt/CREB/PGC1α pathway, and further enhancing mitochondria biogenesis, synaptic function and reducing oxidative stress; increasing neurogenesis and synaptic function by pERK; activating PKA pathway). However, more mechanisms still need explorations.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31220527	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31220527	Alzheimer
Journal of the American Geriatrics Society	Incidence of Dementia and Alzheimer Disease Over Time: A Meta-Analysis.	Dementia incidence declined over the past four decades, but AD incidence did not decline. Further research, especially from non-Western countries, is needed to elucidate the mechanism underlying the trends in dementia and AD incidence over time.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31220336	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31220336	Alzheimer
Histology and histopathology	Melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells in aging and disease.	Melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells (mRGCs) constitute a system in the mammalian retina used for irradiance detection, regulating non-image forming functions, such as photoentrainment of circadian rhythms, control of the pupillary light reflex, masking response, light-regulated melatonin secretion, and modulation of the sleep/wake cycle. There are five subtypes of mRGCs differentiated by morphology and function. Recent years of research on mRGCs have identified a broad number of neurodegenerative diseases in the eye and the brain with altered physiologic light responses, leading to disturbances of non-image forming light response(s). In this review, we briefly summarise the melanopsin system in the normal retina and discuss its role in connection to human aging (sleep/wake problems) and retinal pathology in Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases, diabetic retinopathy, mitochondrial optic neuropathies, glaucoma, retinitis pigmentosa, and in photophobia during migraine and in seasonal affective disorder (SAD). Finally, we discuss the diagnostic tools that are being used to differentiate retinal diseases involving the melanopsin system in the rods and cones from the inner versus the outer retina.	2019	eng	Review	Spain	31219170	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31219170	Alzheimer
Genetics in medicine : official journal of the American College of Medical Genetics	ADDENDUM: Genetic counseling and testing for Alzheimer disease: joint practice guidelines of the American College of Medical Genetics and the National Society of Genetic Counselors.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31217590	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31217590	Alzheimer
Nutrients	Body Weight Variation Patterns as Predictors of Cognitive Decline over a 5 Year Follow-Up among Community-Dwelling Elderly (MAPT Study).	This study aimed to analyze associations between weight variation patterns and changes in cognitive function and hippocampal volume among non-demented, community-dwelling elderly. Sample was formed of 1394 adults >70 years (63.9% female), all volunteers from the Multidomain Alzheimer Preventive Trial (MAPT). Weight loss was defined as ≥5% of body weight decrease in the first year of follow-up; weight gain as ≥5% of weight increase; and stability if <5% weight variation. Cognition was examined by a Z-score combining four tests. Measures were assessed at baseline, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months of follow-up. Hippocampal volume was evaluated with magnetic resonance imaging in 349 subjects in the first year and at 36 months. Mixed models were performed. From the 1394 participants, 5.5% (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31216732	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31216732	Alzheimer
Human molecular genetics	Somatic mutation that affects transcription factor binding upstream of CD55 in the temporal cortex of a late-onset Alzheimer disease patient.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease worldwide. Familial cases suggest genetic components; however, monogenetic causes are few, and the vast majority of incidences have unknown cause. Sequencing efforts have focused on germline mutations, but improved technology has opened up for studies on somatic mutations in affected brain tissue samples. Here we use ultra-deep sequencing on brain and blood from early-onset AD (EOAD) and late-onset AD (LOAD) patients and non-AD individuals (n = 16). In total, 2.86 Mb of genomic regions, previously associated with AD, were targeted included 28 genes and upstream and downstream regulatory regions. Tailored downstream bioinformatics filtering identified 11 somatic single nucleotide variants in the temporal cortex in AD patients and none in the controls. One variant was validated to be present at 0.4% allele frequency in temporal cortex of a LOAD patient. This variant was predicted to affect transcription factor binding sites upstream of the CD55 gene, contributing to AD pathogenesis by affecting the complement system. Our results suggest that future studies targeting larger portions of the genome for somatic mutation analysis are important to obtain an increased understanding for the molecular basis of both EOAD and LOAD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31216356	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31216356	Alzheimer
Current medicinal chemistry	Natural Products as Potential anti-Alzheimer Agents.	Medicinal plants have curative properties due to the presence of various complex chemical substances of different composition, which are found as secondary metabolites in one or more parts of the plant. The diverse secondary metabolites play an important role in the prevention and cure of various diseases including neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease. Naturally occurring compounds such as flavonoids, polyphenols, alkaloids, and glycosides found in various parts of the plant and/or marine sources may potentially protect neurodegeneration as well as improve memory and cognitive function. Many natural compounds show anti-Alzheimer activity through specific pharmacological mechanisms like targeting β-amyloid, Beta-secretase 1 and Acetylcholinesterase. In this review, we have compiled more than 130 natural products with a broad diversity in the class of compounds were isolated from different sources showing anti-Alzheimer properties.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United Arab Emirates	31215372	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31215372	Alzheimer
Frontiers in physiology	Promoting the Assessment of Physical Activity and Cardiorespiratory Fitness in Assessing the Role of Vascular Risk on Cognitive Decline in Older Adults.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31214046	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31214046	Alzheimer
Scientific reports	Visual impairment in aging and cognitive decline: experience in a Memory Clinic.	Visual impairment is common in people living with dementia and regular ophthalmological exams may improve their quality of life. We evaluated visual function in a cohort of elderly individuals and analyzed its association with their degree of cognitive impairment. Participants underwent neurological and neuropsychological exams, neuro-ophthalmological assessment (visual acuity, intraocular pressure, rates of past ophthalmological pathologies, use of ocular correction, treatments and surgeries) and optical coherence tomography (OCT) scan. We analyzed differences in ophthalmological characteristics among diagnostic groups. The final sample of 1746 study participants aged ≥ 50 comprised 229 individuals with Subjective Cognitive Decline (SCD), 695 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 833 with Dementia (Alzheimer disease: n = 660; vascular dementia: n = 92, Lewy body dementia: n = 34; frontotemporal dementia: n = 19 and other: n = 28). Age, gender and education were used as covariates. Patients with Dementia, compared to those with SCD and MCI, presented worse visual acuity (p < 0.001), used less visual correction (p = 0.02 and p < 0.001, respectively) and fewer ophthalmological treatments (p = 0.004 and p < 0.001, respectively) and underwent fewer ocular surgeries (p = 0.009 and p < 0.001, respectively). OCT image quality worsened in parallel to cognitive decline (Dementia vs SCD: p = 0.008; Dementia vs MCI: p < 0.001). No group differences in past ophthalmological disorders or abnormal OCT findings were detected. Efforts should be made to ensure dementia patients undergo regular ophthalmological assessments to correct their visual function in order to improve their quality of life.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31213626	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31213626	Alzheimer
European heart journal	Risk of dementia in stroke-free patients diagnosed with atrial fibrillation: data from a population-based cohort.	Incident AF was associated with an increased risk of dementia, independent of clinical stroke in an elderly population. Oral anticoagulant use was linked with a decreased incidence of dementia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31212315	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31212315	Alzheimer
FEBS letters	Inhibition of amyloid-induced toxicity by ergothioneine in a transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans model.	The abnormal accumulation of β-amyloid peptide (Aβ) is recognized as a central component in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. While many aspects of Aβ-mediated neurotoxicity remain elusive, Aβ has been associated with numerous underlying pathologies, including oxidative and nitrosative stress, inflammation, metal ion imbalance, mitochondrial dysfunction, and even tau pathology. Ergothioneine (ET), a naturally occurring thiol/thione-derivative of histidine, has demonstrated antioxidant and neuroprotective properties against various oxidative and neurotoxic stressors. This study investigates ET's potential to counteract Aβ-toxicity in transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans overexpressing a human Aβ peptide. The accumulation of Aβ in this model leads to paralysis and premature death. We show that ET dose-dependently reduces Aβ-oligomerization and extends the lifespan and healthspan of the nematodes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31211853	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31211853	Alzheimer
JAMA	Associations of Amyloid, Tau, and Neurodegeneration Biomarker Profiles With Rates of Memory Decline Among Individuals Without Dementia.	Among older persons without baseline dementia followed for a median of 4.8 years, a prediction model that included amyloid PET, tau PET, and MRI cortical thickness resulted in a small but statistically significant improvement in predicting memory decline over a model with more readily available clinical and genetic variables. The clinical importance of this difference is uncertain.	2019	eng	Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural	United States	31211344	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31211344	Alzheimer
JAMA	Putting the New Alzheimer Disease Amyloid, Tau, Neurodegeneration (AT[N]) Diagnostic System to the Test.	 	2019	eng	Comment	United States	31211328	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31211328	Alzheimer
Trials	Effect of a multicomponent exercise programme (VIVIFRAIL) on functional capacity in frail community elders with cognitive decline: study protocol for a randomized multicentre control trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03657940 . Registered on 5 September 2018.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31208471	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31208471	Alzheimer
International journal of environmental research and public health	Chess Practice as a Protective Factor in Dementia.	although chess is indirectly assumed to be a protective factor due to its cognitive benefits, more studies are required to demonstrate, with strong evidence, whether chess could be a protective factor against dementia within the diagnosed population.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31207926	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31207926	Alzheimer
Statistics in medicine	A hypothesis testing procedure for random changepoint mixed models.	In biomedical research, random changepoint mixed models are used to take into account an individual breakpoint in a biomarker trajectory. This may be observed in the cognitive decline measured by psychometric tests in the prediagnosis phase of Alzheimer's disease. The existence, intensity and duration of this accelerated decline can depend on individual characteristics. The main objective of our work is to propose inferential methods to assess the existence of this phase of accelerated decline, ie, the existence of a random changepoint. To do so, we use a mixed model with two linear phases and test the nullity of the parameter measuring the difference of slopes between the two phases. Because we face the issue of nuisance parameters being unidentifiable under the null hypothesis, the supremum of the classic score test statistic on these parameters is used. The asymptotic distribution of the supremum under the null is approached with a perturbation method based on the multiplier bootstrap. The performance of our testing procedure is assessed via simulations and the test is applied to the French cohort PAQUID of elderly subjects to study the shape of the prediagnosis decline according to educational level. The test is significant for both educational levels and the estimated trajectories confirmed that educational level is a good marker for cognitive reserve.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31206731	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31206731	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Diagnostic Value of Cerebrospinal Fluid Neurofilament Light Protein in Neurology: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.	These data support the use of cNfL as a biomarker of neuroaxonal damage and indicate that age-specific and sex-specific (and in some cases disease-specific) reference values may be needed. The cNfL has potential to assist the differentiation of FTD from AD and PD from atypical parkinsonian syndromes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31206160	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31206160	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	The Art of Caregiving: Lessons in Alzheimer Disease.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31206149	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31206149	Alzheimer
Chinese medical journal	Sleep quality of spousal caregivers is associated with neuropsychiatric symptoms and living ability of patients with Alzheimer disease.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31205111	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31205111	Alzheimer
Chinese medical journal	Application and prospects of butylphthalide for the treatment of neurologic diseases.	The varied pharmacologic mechanisms of NBP involve many complex molecular mechanisms; however, there many unknown pharmacologic effects await further study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31205106	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31205106	Alzheimer
Hypertension (Dallas, Tex. : 1979)	Effects of Nilvadipine on Cerebral Blood Flow in Patients With Alzheimer Disease.	Cerebrovascular changes, including reduced cerebral blood flow (CBF), occur early in the development of Alzheimer disease and may accelerate disease progression. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study investigated how 6 months of treatment with the calcium antagonist nilvadipine would affect CBF in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer disease. CBF was measured with magnetic resonance arterial spin labeling in whole-brain gray matter and in a priori defined regions of interest including the hippocampus. Fifty-eight patients were randomly assigned (29 in each group), of whom 22 in both groups had no magnetic resonance exclusion criteria and were medication compliant over 6 months. Mean age was 72.8±6.2 years, mean mini-mental state examination was 20.4±3.4. Nilvadipine treatment lowered systolic blood pressure (Δ=-11.5 [95% CI, -19.7 to -3.2] mm Hg; P<0.01), while whole-brain gray-matter CBF remained stable (Δ=5.4 [95% CI, -6.4 to 17.2] mL/100 g per minute; P=0.36). CBF in the hippocampus increased (left: Δ=24.4 [95% CI, 4.3-44.5] mL/100 g per minute; P=0.02; right: Δ=20.1 [95% CI, -0.6 to 40.8] mL/100 g per minute; P=0.06). There was no significant change in CBF in the posterior cingulate cortex (Δ=5.2 [95% CI, -16.5 to 27.0] mL/100 g per minute; P=0.63) or other regions of interest. In conclusion, nilvadipine reduced blood pressure and increased CBF in the hippocampus, whereas other regions showed stable or small nonsignificant increases in CBF. These findings not only indicate preserved cerebral autoregulation in Alzheimer disease but also point toward beneficial cerebrovascular effects of antihypertensive treatment. Clinical Trial Registration- URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov . Unique identifier: NCT02017340.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31203725	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31203725	Alzheimer
Journal of geriatric psychiatry and neurology	Nonpharmacological Interventions to Improve Depression, Anxiety, and Quality of Life (QoL) in People With Dementia: An Overview of Systematic Reviews.	This overview aimed to systematically synthesize evidence from existing systematic reviews to signpost practitioners to the current evidence base on nonpharmacological interventions to improve depression, anxiety, and quality of life (QoL) in people with dementia and to discuss priorities for future research. The databases MEDLINE, PsycINFO, Scopus, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were searched in August 2017 with an updated search in January 2019. Fourteen systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials of nonpharmacological interventions were identified. Dementia stage was rated moderate or severe in the majority of the reviews and type of dementia varied. Interventions reported to be effective were cognitive stimulation (QoL: standardized mean difference [SMD] = 0.38), music-based therapeutic interventions (depression: SMD = -0.27, anxiety: SMD = -0.43, QoL: SMD = 0.32), and psychological treatments (mainly cognitive behavior therapy; depression: SMD = -0.22, anxiety: MD = -4.57). Although health-care professionals are recommended to continue using these approaches, future research needs to focus on the type and form of interventions that are most effective for different stages and types of dementia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31203712	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31203712	Alzheimer
Journal of geriatric psychiatry and neurology	The Difficult Diagnosis of Posterior Cortical Atrophy in a 62-Year-Old Woman.	Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) describes a rare heterogenous neurodegenerative syndrome with early visuospatial and visuoperceptual deficits due to atrophy of parieto-occipital brain regions. Here, we describe the case of a 62-year-old woman showing severe cognitive impairments as well as hemianopsia and all core symptoms of Bálint's syndrome. Years ago, the patient had complained about a "tunnel view" and concentration problems. The diagnostic results point to a case of PCA with underlying Alzheimer pathology. The disease course until diagnosis lasted for 7 years, reflecting the diagnostic difficulties with this still largely unknown syndrome. The unfamiliar symptom presentation including fluctuations in cognitive performance, affective symptoms, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, which were at first inconspicuous, and a former suspected diagnosis of dissociative pseudodementia, altogether brought considerable uncertainty to the involved health-care professionals. We conclude that cases of "atypical dementia" presenting with visual symptoms, even if appearing unspecific at first, are suspect of PCA. This case report provides an ostensive overview of PCA, including imaging data, CSF-findings, original drawings and handwriting samples from the patient.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31203704	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31203704	Alzheimer
iScience	CD4 T Cells Induce A Subset of MHCII-Expressing Microglia that Attenuates Alzheimer Pathology.	Microglia play a key role in innate immunity in Alzheimer disease (AD), but their role as antigen-presenting cells is as yet unclear. Here we found that amyloid β peptide (Aβ)-specific T helper 1 (Aβ-Th1 cells) T cells polarized to secrete interferon-γ and intracerebroventricularly (ICV) injected to the 5XFAD mouse model of AD induced the differentiation of major histocompatibility complex class II (MHCII)+ microglia with distinct morphology and enhanced plaque clearance capacity than MHCII- microglia. Notably, 5XFAD mice lacking MHCII exhibited an enhanced amyloid pathology in the brain along with exacerbated innate inflammation and reduced phagocytic capacity. Using a bone marrow chimera mouse model, we showed that infiltrating macrophages did not differentiate to MHCII+ cells following ICV injection of Aβ-Th1 cells and did not support T cell-mediated amyloid clearance. Overall, we demonstrate that CD4 T cells induce a P2ry12+ MHCII+ subset of microglia, which play a key role in T cell-mediated effector functions that abrogate AD-like pathology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31203186	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31203186	Alzheimer
NeuroImage. Clinical	Alzheimer's disease patients activate attention networks in a short-term memory task.	Network functioning during cognitive tasks is of major interest in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Cognitive functioning in AD includes variable performance in short-term memory (STM). In most studies, the verbal STM functioning in AD patients has been interpreted within the phonological loop subsystem of Baddeley's working memory model. An alternative account considers that domain-general attentional processes explain the involvement of frontoparietal networks in verbal STM beside the functioning of modality-specific subsystems. In this study, we assessed the functional integrity of the dorsal attention network (involved in task-related attention) and the ventral attention network (involved in stimulus-driven attention) by varying attentional control demands in a STM task. Thirty-five AD patients and twenty controls in the seventies performed an fMRI STM task. Variation in load (five versus two items) allowed the dorsal (DAN) and ventral attention networks (VAN) to be studied. ANOVA revealed that performance decreased with increased load in both groups. AD patients performed slightly worse than controls, but accuracy remained above 70% in all patients. Statistical analysis of fMRI brain images revealed DAN activation for high load in both groups. There was no between-group difference or common activation for low compared to high load conditions. Psychophysiological interaction showed a negative relationship between the DAN and the VAN for high versus low load conditions in patients. In conclusion, the DAN remained activated and connected to the VAN in mild AD patients who succeeded in performing an fMRI verbal STM task. DAN was necessary for the task, but not sufficient to reach normal performance. Slightly lower performance in early AD patients compared to controls might be related to maintained bottom-up attention to distractors, to decrease in executive functions, to impaired phonological processing or to reduced capacity in serial order processing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31203170	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31203170	Alzheimer
European journal of nuclear medicine and molecular imaging	Brain metabolic patterns in patients with suspected non-Alzheimer's pathophysiology (SNAP) and Alzheimer's disease (AD): is [	SNAP subjects show milder impairment of brain [	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31201430	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31201430	Alzheimer
CMAJ open	Impact of the Quebec Alzheimer Plan on the detection and management of Alzheimer disease and other neurocognitive disorders in primary health care: a retrospective study.	The results suggest that the Quebec Alzheimer Plan is feasible and beneficial in terms of detection and management of neurocognitive disorders, without an increase in referral to specialists. The findings will be used to scale up the Quebec Alzheimer Plan and to develop the Canadian federal dementia strategy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31201175	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31201175	Alzheimer
Annals of neurology	Genetic risk for alzheimer disease is distinct from genetic risk for amyloid deposition.	The results showed different pattern of APOE contribution in PRS risk predictions of AD/MCI and amyloid deposition. Our study suggests that APOE mostly contributes to amyloid accumulation and the PRS affects risk of further conversion to AD. ANN NEUROL 2019.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31199530	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31199530	Alzheimer
Archives of clinical neuropsychology : the official journal of the National Academy of Neuropsychologists	Developing a Spatial Navigation Screening Tool Sensitive to the Preclinical Alzheimer Disease Continuum.	These findings suggest that a self-report questionnaire and aspects of a cognitive mapping task may be particularly appropriate for development as screening tools for identifying individuals in the preclinical AD continuum.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31197326	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31197326	Alzheimer
Current Alzheimer research	Heterogeneity in cost-effectiveness analysis of vaccination for mild and moderate Alzheimer's disease.	There were considerable heterogeneities observed in the CEA of vaccination for AD. As with the development of personalized medicine, the CEA results assessed by health decision-maker should not only be considered by population-average level but also specific sub-group levels.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United Arab Emirates	31195946	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31195946	Alzheimer
Current Alzheimer research	Social Network Analysis of Dementia Wards in Psychiatric Hospitals to Explore the Advancement of Personhood in Patients with Alzheimer's Disease.	All professional roles were deemed to promote PWA personhood in dementia wards, although some limitation exists according to the context of the assessment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United Arab Emirates	31195945	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31195945	Alzheimer
 	Neuroanatomy, Putamen	The putamen, combined with the globus pallidus forms the lentiform nucleus; and with the caudate nucleus, it shapes the striatum which is a subcortical structure that forms the basal ganglia. The putamen is involved in learning and motor control, including speech articulation, and language functions, reward, cognitive functioning, and addiction.[1][2][3] Research has noted putaminal dysfunctions in various motor and cognitive dysfunctions, namely Parkinson disease, Huntington disease, Alzheimer disease, depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, Wilson disease, and autism.	2019	eng	Review	 	31194327	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31194327	Alzheimer
IBRO reports	Counter effects of Asiaticosids-D through putative neurotransmission on rotenone induced cerebral ganglionic injury in 	Asiaticoside-D (AD) was shown to efficacy of ganglionic degenerated 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31193360	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31193360	Alzheimer
Disease markers	Biomarkers for Alzheimer's Disease in Saliva: A Systematic Review.	A	2019	eng	Review	United States	31191751	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31191751	Alzheimer
Frontiers in neurology	Apolipoprotein E Homozygous ε4 Allele Status: A Deteriorating Effect on Visuospatial Working Memory and Global Brain Structure.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31191441	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31191441	Alzheimer
Biochimica et biophysica acta. Molecular basis of disease	Differences in structure and function between human and murine tau.	The main difference between the primary structures of human and mouse tau can be found at the N-terminal end of the protein. Residues 17 to 28 in human tau are not present in the mouse form of the molecule. Here we tested the capacity of these human tau residues to bind to specific proteins. Several proteins were observed to bind to these residues. Among those that showed the greatest binding were three related to energetic processes: enolase, glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase B. The latter did not bind to tau from brain extracts taken from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). This lack of binding could be due to the modification of CKB by oxidation in AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31189515	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31189515	Alzheimer
Autophagy	Autophagy: a potential key contributor to the therapeutic action of mesenchymal stem cells.	Macroautophagy/autophagy occurs at basal levels in all eukaryotic cells and plays an important role in maintaining bio-energetic homeostasis through the control of molecule degradation and organelle turnover. It can be induced by environmental conditions such as starvation, and is deregulated in many diseases including autoimmune diseases, neurodegenerative disorders, and cancer. Interestingly, the modulation of autophagy in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) represents a possible mechanism which, affecting MSC properties, may have an impact on their regenerative, therapeutic potential. Furthermore, the ability of MSCs to modulate autophagy of cells in injured tissues/organs has been recently proposed to be involved in the regeneration of damaged tissues and organs. In particular, MSCs can affect autophagy in immune cells involved in injury-induced inflammation reducing their survival, proliferation, and function and favoring the resolution of inflammation. In addition, MSCs can affect autophagy in endogenous adult or progenitor cells, promoting their survival, proliferation and differentiation supporting the restoration of functional tissue. This review provides, for the first time, an overview of the studies which highlight a possible link between the therapeutic properties of MSCs and their ability to modulate autophagy, and it summarizes examples of disorders where these therapeutic properties have been correlated with such modulation. A better elucidation of the mechanism(s) through which MSCs can modulate the autophagy of target cells and how autophagy can affect MSCs therapeutic properties, can provide a wider perspective for the clinical application of MSCs in the treatment of many diseases. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31185790	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31185790	Alzheimer
Brain sciences	Emotional and Phenomenological Properties of Odor-Evoked Autobiographical Memories in Alzheimer's Disease.	Autobiographical memory, which contains all personal memories relative to our identity, has been found to be impaired in Alzheimer' Disease (AD). Recent research has demonstrated that odor may serve as a powerful cue for the recovery of autobiographical memories in AD. Building on this research, we investigated emotional characteristics (arousal and valence) and subjective reliving of odor-evoked autobiographical memories in AD. We also investigated the relationship between these characteristics and depression. To this end, we invited participants with mild AD and controls to retrieve autobiographical memories after odor exposure or without odor. Results showed higher arousal, subjective reliving and more positive memories after odor exposure compared with the odor-free condition, these differences being observed only in AD participants. We also found that emotion (arousal and valence) and subjective reliving triggered by odor were associated with depressive symptoms in AD. These findings demonstrate that odor may be a useful cue to trigger more detailed, vivid and positive events in AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31185649	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31185649	Alzheimer
PLoS biology	ADAMTS13 maintains cerebrovascular integrity to ameliorate Alzheimer-like pathology.	Blood-brain barrier (BBB) defects and cerebrovascular dysfunction contribute to amyloid-β (Aβ) brain accumulation and drive Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology. By regulating vascular functions and inflammation in the microvasculature, a disintegrin and metalloprotease with thrombospondin type I motif, member 13 (ADAMTS13) plays a significant protective effect in atherosclerosis and stroke. However, whether ADAMTS13 influences AD pathogenesis remains unclear. Using in vivo multiphoton microscopy, histological, behavioral, and biological methods, we determined BBB integrity, cerebrovascular dysfunction, amyloid accumulation, and cognitive impairment in APPPS1 mice lacking ADAMTS13. We also tested the impact of viral-mediated expression of ADAMTS13 on cerebrovascular function and AD-like pathology in APPPS1 mice. We show that ADAMTS13 deficiency led to an early and progressive BBB breakdown as well as reductions in vessel density, capillary perfusion, and cerebral blood flow in APPPS1 mice. We found that deficiency of ADAMTS13 increased brain plaque load and Aβ levels and accelerated cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) by impeding BBB-mediated clearance of brain Aβ, resulting in worse cognitive decline in APPPS1 mice. Virus-mediated expression of ADAMTS13 attenuated BBB disruption and increased microvessels, capillary perfusion, and cerebral blood flow in APPPS1 mice already showing BBB damage and plaque deposition. These beneficial vascular effects were reflected by increase in clearance of cerebral Aβ, reductions in Aβ brain accumulation, and improvements in cognitive performance. Our results show that ADAMTS13 deficiency contributes to AD cerebrovascular dysfunction and the resulting pathogenesis and cognitive deficits and suggest that ADAMTS13 may offer novel therapeutic opportunities for AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31185010	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31185010	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Analysis of Whole-Exome Sequencing Data for Alzheimer Disease Stratified by APOE Genotype.	The study identified multiple possible novel associations for AD with individual and aggregated rare variants in groups of individuals with and without APOE ε4 alleles that reinforce known and suggest additional pathways leading to AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31180460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31180460	Alzheimer
Journal of neurology	Analytical and clinical performances of the automated Lumipulse cerebrospinal fluid Aβ	Our results demonstrate that the Lumipulse Aβ	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31179518	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31179518	Alzheimer
Frontiers in aging neuroscience	Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9, Brain Cholesterol Homeostasis and Potential Implication for Alzheimer's Disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been associated with dysregulation of brain cholesterol homeostasis. Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), beyond the known role in the regulation of plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, was first identified in the brain with a potential involvement in brain development and apoptosis. However, its role in the central nervous system (CNS) and in AD pathogenesis is still far from being understood. While 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31178716	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31178716	Alzheimer
American journal of human genetics	Expansion of Human-Specific GGC Repeat in Neuronal Intranuclear Inclusion Disease-Related Disorders.	Neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease (NIID) is a slowly progressing neurodegenerative disease characterized by eosinophilic intranuclear inclusions in the nervous system and multiple visceral organs. The clinical manifestation of NIID varies widely, and both familial and sporadic cases have been reported. Here we have performed genetic linkage analysis and mapped the disease locus to 1p13.3-q23.1; however, whole-exome sequencing revealed no potential disease-causing mutations. We then performed long-read genome sequencing and identified a large GGC repeat expansion within human-specific NOTCH2NLC. Expanded GGC repeats as the cause of NIID was further confirmed in an additional three NIID-affected families as well as five sporadic NIID-affected case subjects. Moreover, given the clinical heterogeneity of NIID, we examined the size of the GGC repeat among 456 families with a variety of neurological conditions with the known pathogenic genes excluded. Surprisingly, GGC repeat expansion was observed in two Alzheimer disease (AD)-affected families and three parkinsonism-affected families, implicating that the GGC repeat expansions in NOTCH2NLC could also contribute to the pathogenesis of both AD and PD. Therefore, we suggest defining a term NIID-related disorders (NIIDRD), which will include NIID and other related neurodegenerative diseases caused by the expanded GGC repeat within human-specific NOTCH2NLC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31178126	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31178126	Alzheimer
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Stable Co-Cultivation of the Moss Physcomitrella patens with Human Cells in vitro as a New Approach to Support Metabolism of Diseased Alzheimer Cells.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder with no cure. While there are many hypotheses, the exact mechanism causing this pathology is still unknown. Among many other features, AD is characterized by brain hypometabolism and decreased sugar availability, to which neurons eventually succumb. In light of this aspect of the disease, we hypothesized that boosting fuel supply to neurons may help them survive or at least alleviate some of the symptoms. Here we demonstrate that live moss Physcomitrella patens cells can be safely co-cultured with human fibroblasts in vitro and thus have a potential for providing human cells with energy and other vital biomolecules. These data may form the foundation for the development of novel approaches to metabolic bioengineering and treatment of diseased cells based on live plants. In addition, by providing alternative energy sources to human tissues, the biotechnological potential of this interkingdom setup could also serve as a springboard to foster innovative dietary processes addressing current challenges of mankind such as famine or supporting long-haul space flight.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31177231	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31177231	Alzheimer
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Oral Immunization with Soybean Storage Protein Containing Amyloid-β 4-10 Prevents Spatial Learning Decline.	 Amyloid-β (Aβ) plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Because AD pathologies begin two decades before the onset of dementia, prevention of Aβ amyloidosis has been proposed as a mean to block the pathological cascade. Here, we generate a transgenic plant-based vaccine, a soybean storage protein containing Aβ4-10, named Aβ+, for oral Aβ immunization. One mg of Aβ+ or control protein (Aβ-) was administered to TgCRND8 mice once a week from 9 weeks up to 58 weeks. Aβ+ immunization raised both anti-Aβ antibodies and cellular immune responses. Spatial learning decline was prevented in the Aβ+ immunized group in an extended reference memory version of Morris water maze test from 21 to 57 weeks. In Tris-buffered saline (TBS), sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS), and formic acid (FA) serial extractions, all sets of Aβ species from Aβ monomer, low to high molecular weight Aβ oligomers, and Aβ smears had different solubility in TgCRND8 brains. Aβ oligomers decreased in TBS fractions, corresponding to an increase in high molecular weight Aβ oligomers in SDS extracts and Aβ smears in FA fraction of the Aβ+ treated group. There was significant inhibition of histological Aβ burden, especially in diffuse plaques, and suppression of microglial inflammation. Processing of amyloid-β protein precursor was not different between Aβ+ and Aβ- groups. No evidence of amyloid-related inflammatory angiopathy was observed. Thus, Aβ+ oral immunization could be a promising, cheap, and long-term safe disease-modifying therapy to prevent the pathological process in AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31177217	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31177217	Alzheimer
Diabetes care	BMI, Weight Change, and Dementia Risk in Patients With New-Onset Type 2 Diabetes: A Nationwide Cohort Study.	A lower baseline BMI was associated with increased risks of all-cause dementia and AD in patients with new-onset type 2 diabetes. Weight loss or weight gain after the diagnosis of diabetes was associated with an increased risk of all-cause dementia. Weight loss was associated with an increased risk of AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31177182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31177182	Alzheimer
International immunopharmacology	The neuroprotection of progesterone against Aβ-induced NLRP3-Caspase-1 inflammasome activation via enhancing autophagy in astrocytes.	Neuroinflammation and autophagy dysfunction are known to be involved in the pathological procession of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Progesterone (PG), neuroactive steroids, exerts a characteristic neuroprotective function in improving AD syndrome. The NOD-like receptor pyrin 3 (NLRP3)-Caspase-1 inflammasome has specific relevance to AD pathological procession. However, the exact role of PG in regulating NLRP3-Caspase-1 inflammasome remains to be elucidated. We demonstrated Aβ up-regulated IL-1β expression in astrocytes by activating NLRP3-Caspase-1 inflammasome. However, pharmacological activation of autophagy by Rapamycin (RAPA) efficiently suppressed Aβ-, lipopolysaccharides (LPS)-induced IL-1β expression via regulating NLRP3-Caspase-1 inflammasome in astrocytes. Remarkably, PG significantly inhibited Aβ-induced NLRP3-Caspase-1 inflammasome activation. Autophagy inhibitor 3-MA blocked the protective effects of PG in mediating NLRP3 inflammasome and IL-1β processing. Taken together, our observations suggest that autophagy-lysosome pathway is one specific molecular mechanism in regulating Aβ-induced NLRP3-Caspase-1 inflammasome activation in astrocytes, particularly uncover the potential neuroprotection of PG in regulating upstream signaling leading to the sequence events of neuroinflammation. That neuroprotective mechanism of PG in regulating NLRP3-Caspase-1 inflammasome can be a potential therapeutic target for ameliorating the pathological procession of AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31176046	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31176046	Alzheimer
The journals of gerontology. Series A, Biological sciences and medical sciences	Time for Well-Powered Controlled Prospective Studies to test a Causal Role for Herpes Viruses in Alzheimer Using Anti-Herpes Drugs.	Twenty-six phase III studies on Alzheimer's Disease (AD) are ongoing or have been completed in 2018. Most of these studies are targeting amyloid-beta, its production, polymerization, and/or multiple interactions. None of the amyloid-beta studies seem to impact positively the clinical outcome of AD patients thus far, no matter the advancement of disease. It is time to consider other hypotheses for the pathogenesis of AD, including the potential role of human herpes viruses (HHV), and especially HHV1 (herpes simplex virus type 1), HHV3 (varicella zoster virus), HHV6A and HHV7. With this Perspective, we review the scientific evidence, and make the case for appropriately powered, prospective, randomized and controlled studies using an anti-HHV drug, to establish a causal role for HHV in AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31175818	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31175818	Alzheimer
Revue neurologique	Historic concepts of dementia and Alzheimer's disease: From ancient times to the present.	The aim of this work is to describe the history of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD) concepts, from early descriptions in antiquity, through studies and authors from different historical periods throughout the centuries, to the latest updates of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-V). The article also presents the inclusion of the biomarkers from the cerebrospinal fluid, such as Tau and phosphorylated Tau proteins and beta-amyloid peptide in the most recent diagnostic criteria. A literature search was carried out in order to construct a reflexive narrative review of studies dated up to 2015 in the LILACS and Medline databases and with the inclusion of bibliographical references of the area. The different terms used throughout the history of the dementia and Alzheimer's disease concepts were contextualized according to the scientific perspective of a given epoch and its way of producing and reproducing knowledge. The concepts of dementia and AD continue to evolve, largely due to their complexity. Considering the importance and the growth of AD cases in the last and the next decades, this review may contribute in practice with the historical knowledge of the concepts related to dementia and AD.	2019	eng	Review	France	31174886	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31174886	Alzheimer
Experimental gerontology	A comparison of the prevalence of orthostatic hypotension between older patients with Alzheimer's Disease, Lewy body dementia, and without dementia.	Orthostatic hypotension (OH) is reported to be more prevalent particularly in patients with Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) because of the autonomic dysfunction, but prevalence of OH is not known in patients with Alzheimer Disease (AD). The aim of the present study was to determine whether OH can be used to distinguish DLB from AD. 38 patients with DLB, 88 patients with AD and 521 patients without dementia, underwent Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment. OH were evaluated for the 1st (OH1) and 3rd (OH3) minutes, taking the data in supine position as the basis, by Head-Up-Tilt Test. Prevalence of OH1 was 43.2% in AD, 44.7% in DLB and 17.9% in patients without dementia, and OH3 was 44.3% in AD, 47.4% in DLB and 17.9% in non-dementia group. The frequency of OH1 and OH3 was higher in the AD and DLB groups than in the patients without dementia (p < 0.001), but there was no significant difference between DLB and AD in terms of OH (p > 0.05). The percentage of asymptomatic patients with OH was 87.2% and 89.6% during 1st and 3rd minutes, respectively, and this percentage was similar in three groups (p > 0.05, for each). There was no significant difference between the two dementia groups in terms of comorbidities, drugs and laboratory values (p > 0.05). OH is more prevalent in patients with AD than controls and similar levels are observed in those with DLB. The prevalence of OH equally is greater with DLB or AD disease progression. Clinicians should be aware of OH and its related consequences in the management of the AD in older adults.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31173842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31173842	Alzheimer
Cell death & disease	Aβ oligomers promote oligodendrocyte differentiation and maturation via integrin β1 and Fyn kinase signaling.	Alzheimer´s disease (AD) is characterized by a progressive cognitive decline that correlates with the levels of amyloid β-peptide (Aβ) oligomers. Strong evidences connect changes of oligodendrocyte function with the onset of neurodegeneration in AD. However, the mechanisms controlling oligodendrocyte responses to Aβ are still elusive. Here, we tested the role of Aβ in oligodendrocyte differentiation, maturation, and survival in isolated oligodendrocytes and in organotypic cerebellar slices. We found that Aβ peptides specifically induced local translation of 18.5-kDa myelin basic protein (MBP) isoform in distal cell processes concomitant with an increase of process complexity of MBP-expressing oligodendrocytes. Aβ oligomers required integrin β1 receptor, Src-family kinase Fyn and Ca	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31171765	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31171765	Alzheimer
The Journal of biological chemistry	Tau isoform expression and phosphorylation in marmoset brains.	Tau is a microtubule-associated protein expressed in neuronal axons. Hyperphosphorylated tau is a major component of neurofibrillary tangles, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Hyperphosphorylated tau aggregates are also found in many neurodegenerative diseases, collectively referred to as "tauopathies," and tau mutations are associated with familiar frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Previous studies have generated transgenic mice with mutant tau as tauopathy models, but non-human primates, which are more similar to humans, may be a better model to study tauopathies. For example, the common marmoset is poised as a nonhuman primate model for investigating the etiology of age-related neurodegenerative diseases. However, no biochemical studies of tau have been conducted in marmoset brains. Here, we investigated several important aspects of tau, including expression of different tau isoforms and its phosphorylation status, in the marmoset brain. We found that marmoset tau does not possess the "primate unique motif" in its N-terminal domain. We also discovered that the tau isoform expression pattern in marmosets is more similar to that of mice than of humans, with adult marmoset brains expressing only four-repeat tau isoforms as in adult mice but unlike in adult human brains. Of note, tau in brains of marmoset newborns was phosphorylated at several sites associated with AD pathology. However, in adult marmoset brains, much of this phosphorylation was lost, except for Ser-202 and Ser-404 phosphorylation. These results reveal key features of tau expression and phosphorylation in the marmoset brain, a potentially useful non-human primate model of neurodegenerative diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31171723	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31171723	Alzheimer
American journal of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias	Apathy and Disinhibition Related to Neuropathology in Amnestic Versus Behavioral Dementias.	Alzheimer disease neuropathology had the closest association with the neuropsychiatric symptom of apathy, while FTLD was most associated with the combination of apathy and disinhibition. Over time, the frequency of those with apathy increased in both AD and FTLD neuropathology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31170813	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31170813	Alzheimer
Journal of the American Geriatrics Society	Association of 3-Year Multidomain Intervention and Omega-3 Supplementation with Frailty Incidence.	In community-dwelling older persons, the combination of a long-term lifestyle MI and omega-3 supplementation did not reduce frailty level or incidence. The reduction of frailty incidence associated with the combined intervention in a sensitivity analysis needs to be further confirmed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31169912	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31169912	Alzheimer
Medicine	Three-dimensional pseudocontinuous arterial spin labeling and susceptibility-weighted imaging associated with clinical progression in amnestic mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.	3D-pCASL and SWI have promising potential to be biomarkers for conversion from aMCI to AD in this process.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31169728	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31169728	Alzheimer
Annals of neurology	Target engagement in an alzheimer trial: Crenezumab lowers amyloid β oligomers in cerebrospinal fluid.	Crenezumab lowered CSF oAβ levels in the large majority of treated patients tested. These results support engagement of the principal pathobiological target in AD and identify CSF oAβ as a novel pharmacodynamic biomarker for use in trials of anti-Aβ agents. ANN NEUROL 2019;86:215-224.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31168802	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31168802	Alzheimer
Neurology	Subthreshold amyloid and its biological and clinical meaning: Long way ahead.	The development of in vivo imaging of the pathologic hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD), β-amyloid (Aβ), altered the framing of its pathophysiology and formulation of inclusion criteria for clinical trials. Recent evidence suggests that in vivo measures of Aβ deposition below a threshold indicative of Aβ positivity carry critical information on future cognitive decline and accumulation of AD pathology, potentially already at a younger age. Here, we integrate the existing literature on histopathology of Aβ and its convergence and divergence with in vivo Aβ imaging. The evidence presented amounts to a reconceptualization, in which we advocate for a closer look into Aβ accumulation rates in earlier life, the factors that promote accumulation, comparative studies with different markers of Aβ, and longitudinal designs to elucidate when AD pathology rises and how it shifts from benign to malignant stages that ultimately define AD. These efforts open a new window of opportunity for disease-modifying interventions.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31167933	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31167933	Alzheimer
Journal of lipid research	ABCA1- and ABCG1-mediated cholesterol efflux capacity of cerebrospinal fluid is impaired in Alzheimer's disease.	HDL-like particles in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) promote the efflux of cholesterol from astrocytes towards the neurons that rely on this supply for their functions. We evaluated whether cell cholesterol efflux capacity of CSF (CSF-CEC) is impaired in Alzheimer disease (AD), by analyzing AD (n = 37), non-AD dementia patients (non-AD DEM, n = 16) and control subjects (n = 39). As expected, AD patients showed reduced CSF Aβ 1-42, increased total- and phospho-Tau and higher frequency of apo Ɛ4 genotype. ABCA1- and ABCG1-mediated CSF-CEC was markedly reduced in AD (-73% and -33%, respectively) but not in non-AD DEM, in which a reduced passive diffusion CEC (-40%) was observed. Non-AD DEM patients displayed lower CSF apoE concentrations (-24%) compared to controls, while apoA-I levels were similar among groups. No differences in CSF-CEC were found by stratifying subjects for apo Ɛ4 status. ABCG1 CSF-CEC positively correlated with Aβ 1-42 (r = 0.305, p = 0.025) while ABCA1 CSF-CEC inversely correlated with total- and phospho-Tau (r = -0.348, p = 0.018 and r = -0.294, p = 0.048 respectively). The CSF-CEC impairment and the correlation with the neurobiochemical markers suggest a pathophysiological link between CSF HDL-like particle dysfunction and neurodegeneration in AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31167810	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31167810	Alzheimer
Biochimica et biophysica acta. Molecular basis of disease	Phosphoproteomics of Alzheimer disease brain: Insights into altered brain protein regulation of critical neuronal functions and their contributions to subsequent cognitive loss.	Alzheimer disease (AD) is the major locus of dementia worldwide. In the USA there are nearly 6 million persons with this disorder, and estimates of 13-20 million AD cases in the next three decades. The molecular bases for AD remain unknown, though processes involving amyloid beta-peptide as small oligomeric forms are gaining attention as known agents to both lead to oxidative stress and synaptic dysfunction associated with cognitive dysfunction in AD and its earlier forms, including amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and possibly preclinical Alzheimer disease (PCAD). Altered brain protein phosphorylation is a hallmark of AD, and phosphoproteomics offers an opportunity to identify these altered phosphoproteins in order to gain more insights into molecular mechanisms of neuronal dysfunction and death that lead to cognitive loss. This paper reviews what, to this author, are believed to be the known phosphoproteomics studies related to in vitro and in vivo models of AD as well as phosphoproteomics studies of brains from subjects with AD, and in at least one case in MCI and PCAD as well. The results of this review are discussed with relevance to new insights into AD brain protein dysregulation in critical neuronal functions and to potential therapeutic targets to slow, or in favorable cases, halt progression of this dementing disorder that affects millions of persons and their families worldwide.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31167728	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31167728	Alzheimer
Journal of the American Geriatrics Society	Providing Behavioral Health Services in Nursing Homes Is Difficult: Findings From a National Survey.	Inadequate BH education and psychiatric training among NH staff were associated with subpar provision of BH services in this care setting. New initiatives that increase access to BH providers and services and improve staff education are urgently needed in NHs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31166614	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31166614	Alzheimer
Journal of neuropathology and experimental neurology	Diffuse Lewy Body Disease and Alzheimer Disease: Neuropathologic Phenotype Associated With the PSEN1 p.A396T Mutation.	In sporadic and dominantly inherited Alzheimer disease (AD), aggregation of both tau and α-synuclein may occur in neurons. Aggregates of either protein occur separately or coexist in the same neuron. It is not known whether the coaggregation of tau and α-synuclein in dominantly inherited AD occurs in association with specific mutations of the APP, PSEN1, or PSEN2 genes. The aim of this study was to provide the first characterization of the neuropathologic phenotype associated with the PSEN1 p.A396T mutation in a man who was clinically diagnosed as having AD, but for whom the PSEN1 mutation was found postmortem. The proband, who was 56 years old when cognitive impairment first manifested, died at 67 years of age. Neuropathologically, 3 proteinopathies were present in the brain. Widespread α-synuclein-immunopositive neuronal inclusions suggested a diagnosis of diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), while severe and widespread tau and amyloid-β pathologies confirmed the clinical diagnosis of AD. Immunohistochemistry revealed the coexistence of tau and α-synuclein aggregates in the same neuron. Neuropathologic and molecular studies in brains of carriers of the PSEN1 p.A396T mutation or other PSEN1 or PSEN2 mutations associated with the coexistence of DLBD and AD are needed to clarify whether tau and α-synuclein proteinopathies occur independently or whether a relationship exists between α-synuclein and tau that might explain the mechanisms of coaggregation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31165862	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31165862	Alzheimer
Journal of computational neuroscience	Slow-gamma frequencies are optimally guarded against effects of neurodegenerative diseases and traumatic brain injuries.	We introduce a computational model for the cellular level effects of firing rate filtering due to the major forms of neuronal injury, including demyelination and axonal swellings. Based upon experimental and computational observations, we posit simple phenomenological input/output rules describing spike train distortions and demonstrate that slow-gamma frequencies in the 38-41 Hz range emerge as the most robust to injury. Our signal-processing model allows us to derive firing rate filters at the cellular level for impaired neural activity with minimal assumptions. Specifically, we model eight experimentally observed spike train transformations by discrete-time filters, including those associated with increasing refractoriness and intermittent blockage. Continuous counterparts for the filters are also obtained by approximating neuronal firing rates from spike trains convolved with causal and Gaussian kernels. The proposed signal processing framework, which is robust to model parameter calibration, is an abstraction of the major cellular-level pathologies associated with neurodegenerative diseases and traumatic brain injuries that affect spike train propagation and impair neuronal network functionality. Our filters are well aligned with the spectrum of dynamic memory fields including working memory, visual consciousness, and other higher cognitive functions that operate in a frequency band that is - at a single cell level - optimally guarded against common types of pathological effects. In contrast, higher-frequency neural encoding, such as is observed with short-term memory, are susceptible to neurodegeneration and injury.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31165337	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31165337	Alzheimer
Der Nervenarzt	[Antisense therapies for neurological diseases].	Despite identification of many genes causing neurodegenerative diseases in the last decades, development of disease-modifying treatments has been slow. Antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) therapeutics for spinal muscular atrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy and transthyretin amyloidosis predict a robust future for ASOs in medicine. Perhaps the most significant advantage of ASO therapeutics over other small molecule approaches is that acquisition of the target sequence provides immediate knowledge of possible complementary oligonucleotide therapeutics. This review article describes the various types of ASOs, their therapeutic use and the current preclinical efforts to develop new ASO treatments.	2019	ger	Review	Germany	31165208	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31165208	Alzheimer
Behavioural brain research	The efficacy and underlying mechanism of phosphodiesterase- 5 inhibitors in preventing cognitive impairment and Alzheimer pathology: A systematic review of animal studies.	Cognitive decline in preclinical AD finds tauopathy has a more impact than Aβ-42. This systematic review showed that PDE-5 inhibitors might help prevent cognitive impairment in AD, and while its mechanism of action is non-related to Aβ-42, it might include decrease p-Tau, increase CREB and BDNF or suppressing apoptosis and inflammation. However, the efficacy of PDE-5 inhibitors in preventing cognitive impairment remains unclear due to various limitations, such as the small number of included studies, the high risk of bias, the lack of an integrated study design, and low reporting quality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31163203	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31163203	Alzheimer
Journal of biophotonics	Self-assembling amyloid-like peptides as exogenous second harmonic probes for bioimaging applications.	Amyloid-like peptides are an ideal model for the mechanistic study of amyloidosis, which may lead to many human diseases, such as Alzheimer disease. This study reports a strong second harmonic generation (SHG) effect of amyloid-like peptides, having a signal equivalent to or even higher than those of endogenous collagen fibers. Several amyloid-like peptides (both synthetic and natural) were examined under SHG microscopy and shown they are SHG-active. These peptides can also be observed inside cells (in vitro). This interesting property can make these amyloid-like peptides second harmonic probes for bioimaging applications. Furthermore, SHG microscopy can provide a simple and label-free approach to detect amyloidosis. Lattice corneal dystrophy was chosen as a model disease of amyloidosis. Morphological difference between normal and diseased human corneal biopsy samples can be easily recognized, proving that SHG can be a useful tool for disease diagnosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31162811	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31162811	Alzheimer
Human molecular genetics	RNA editing alterations in a multi-ethnic Alzheimer disease cohort converge on immune and endocytic molecular pathways.	Little is known about the post-transcriptional mechanisms that modulate the genetic effects in the molecular pathways underlying Alzheimer disease (AD), and even less is known about how these changes might differ across diverse populations. RNA editing, the process that alters individual bases of RNA, may contribute to AD pathogenesis due to its roles in neuronal development and immune regulation. Here, we pursued one of the first transcriptome-wide RNA editing studies in AD by examining RNA sequencing data from individuals of both African-American (AA) and non-Hispanic White (NHW) ethnicities. Whole transcriptome RNA sequencing and RNA editing analysis were performed on peripheral blood specimens from 216 AD cases (105 AA, 111 NHW) and 212 gender matched controls (105 AA, 107 NHW). 449 positions in 254 genes and 723 positions in 371 genes were differentially edited in AA and NHW, respectively. While most differentially edited sites localized to different genes in AA and NHW populations, these events converged on the same pathways across both ethnicities, especially endocytic and inflammatory response pathways. Furthermore, these differentially edited sites were preferentially predicted to disrupt miRNA binding and induce nonsynonymous coding changes in genes previously associated with AD in molecular studies, including PAFAH1B2 and HNRNPA1. These findings suggest RNA editing is an important post-transcriptional regulatory program in AD pathogenesis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31162550	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31162550	Alzheimer
Neurotherapeutics : the journal of the American Society for Experimental NeuroTherapeutics	Blood Pressure Control and Protection of the Aging Brain.	Hypertension and dementia are both common disorders whose prevalence increases with age. There are multiple mechanisms by which hypertension affects the brain and alters cognition. These include blood flow dynamics, development of large and small vessel pathology and diverse molecular mechanisms including formation of reactive oxygen species and transcriptional cascades. Blood pressure interacts with Alzheimer disease pathology in numerous and unpredictable ways, affecting both β-amyloid and tau deposition, while also interacting with AD genetic risk factors and other metabolic processes. Treatment of hypertension may prevent cognitive decline and dementia, but methodological issues have limited the ability of randomized clinical trials to show this conclusively. Recent studies have raised hope that hypertension treatment may protect the function and structure of the aging brain from advancing to mild cognitive impairment and dementia.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31161491	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31161491	Alzheimer
Neuropsychology review	Functional Neural Correlates of Anosognosia in Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's Disease: a Systematic Review.	Functional neuroimaging techniques (i.e. single photon emission computed tomography, positron emission tomography, and functional magnetic resonance imaging) have been used to assess the neural correlates of anosognosia in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). A systematic review of this literature was performed, following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta Analyses statement, on PubMed, EMBASE, and PsycINFO databases. Twenty-five articles met all inclusion criteria. Specifically, four brain connectivity and 21 brain perfusion, metabolism, and activation articles. Anosognosia is associated in MCI with frontal lobe and cortical midline regional dysfunction (reduced perfusion and activation), and with reduced parietotemporal metabolism. Reduced within and between network connectivity is observed in the default mode network regions of AD patients with anosognosia compared to AD patients without anosognosia and controls. During initial stages of cognitive decline in anosognosia, reduced indirect neural activity (i.e. perfusion, metabolism, and activation) is associated with the cortical midline regions, followed by the parietotemporal structures in later stages and culminating in frontotemporal dysfunction. Although the current evidence suggests differences in activation between AD or MCI patients with anosognosia and healthy controls, more evidence is needed exploring the differences between MCI and AD patients with and without anosognosia using resting state and task related paradigms.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31161466	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31161466	Alzheimer
Zeitschrift fur Gerontologie und Geriatrie	Diagnosis and treatment of cognitive impairment.	As a result of the aging population dementia is a growing challenge, especially in healthcare. Nevertheless, cognitive disorders are often not systematically evaluated, especially during hospital stays for other reasons; however, cognitive impairment is associated with a number of geriatric syndromes, including falls, delirium, dysphagia and lack of adherence to treatment plans. This article considers the current state of diagnosis and treatment of dementia. Non-pharmacological therapeutic approaches as well as current and future pharmacological treatment options are discussed. The drugs of choice for the symptomatic treatment of cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson-associated dementia are cholinesterase inhibitors and memantine; there is no specific pharmacological treatment for other types of dementia. Prevention and treatment of cardiovascular risk factors can potentially retard the progression of possibly all forms of dementia.	2019	eng	Review	Germany	31161337	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31161337	Alzheimer
Journal of the American Medical Directors Association	Dementia Cafés as a Community Resource for Persons With Early-Stage Cognitive Disorders: A Nationwide Survey in Japan.	This study revealed the multicomponent nature of dementia cafés. The results suggest that a good balance of programs and guests would enhance the cafés' effectiveness among the multiple stakeholders in regard to dementia, especially in the early stage of the disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31160259	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31160259	Alzheimer
Journal of geriatric psychiatry and neurology	Normative Data for the Montreal Cognitive Assessment in Greek Older Adults With Subjective Cognitive Decline, Mild Cognitive Impairment and Dementia.	Montreal Cognitive Assessment is not affected by age or gender but is affected by the educational level. The discriminant potential of MoCA between SCD and MCI is good, while the discrimination of SCD from dementia is excellent.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31159629	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31159629	Alzheimer
Expert review of molecular diagnostics	A frontline defense against neurodegenerative diseases:the development of early disease detection methods.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31159600	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31159600	Alzheimer
Neuroscience	Non-Methylation-Linked Mechanism of REST-Induced Neuroglobin Expression Impacts Mitochondrial Phenotypes in a Mouse Model of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.	Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a REST/NRSF-regulated protein, active in reactive oxygen species detoxification and cytochrome c inhibition, which provides a beneficial outcome in pathologies as Alzheimer's disease and strokes. Considering that oxidative stress and cell death are typical hallmarks of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we sought to explore Ngb's involvement along this disease progression. Ngb transcription was detected to be two-fold down-regulated in late-stage SOD	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31158439	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31158439	Alzheimer
JAMA neurology	Association of Amyloid and Tau With Cognition in Preclinical Alzheimer Disease: A Longitudinal Study.	We identified sequential changes in normal older adults, from Aβ to tau to cognition, after which the participants with high Aβ with greater tau increase met clinical criteria for mild cognitive impairment. These findings highlight the importance of repeated tau-PET observations to track disease progression and the importance of repeated amyloid-PET observations to detect the earliest AD pathologic changes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31157827	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31157827	Alzheimer
Frontiers in behavioral neuroscience	Analysis of Motor Function in the Tg4-42 Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder and the most common form of dementia. Hallmarks of AD are memory impairments and cognitive deficits, but non-cognitive impairments, especially motor dysfunctions are also associated with the disease and may even precede classic clinical symptoms. With an aging society and increasing hospitalization of the elderly, motor deficits are of major interest to improve independent activities in daily living. Consistent with clinical findings, a variety of AD mouse models develop motor deficits as well. We investigated the motor function of 3- and 7-month-old Tg4-42 mice in comparison to wild-type controls and 5XFAD mice and discuss the results in context with several other AD mouse model. Our study shows impaired balance and motor coordination in aged Tg4-42 mice in the balance beam and rotarod test, while general locomotor activity and muscle strength is not impaired at 7 months. The cerebellum is a major player in the regulation and coordination of balance and locomotion through practice. Particularly, the rotarod test is able to detect cerebellar deficits. Furthermore, supposed cerebellar impairment was verified by 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31156407	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31156407	Alzheimer
Frontiers in molecular neuroscience	Unifying Hypothesis of Dopamine Neuron Loss in Neurodegenerative Diseases: Focusing on Alzheimer's Disease.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31156387	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31156387	Alzheimer
Information processing in medical imaging : proceedings of the ... conference	A longitudinal model for tau aggregation in Alzheimer's disease based on structural connectivity.	Tau tangles are a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer?s disease (AD) with strong correlations existing between tau aggregation and cognitive decline. Studies in mouse models have shown that the characteristic patterns of tau spatial spread associated with AD progression are determined by neural connectivity rather than physical proximity between different brain regions. We present here a network diffusion model for tau aggregation based on longitudinal tau measures from positron emission tomography (PET) and structural connectivity graphs from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). White matter fiber bundles reconstructed via tractography from the DTI data were used to compute normalized graph Laplacians which served as graph diffusion kernels for tau spread. By linearizing this model and using sparse source localization, we were able to identify distinct patterns of propagative and generative buildup of tau at a population level. A gradient descent approach was used to solve the sparsity-constrained optimization problem. Model fitting was performed on subjects from the Harvard Aging Brain Study cohort. The fitted model parameters include a scalar factor controlling the network-based tau spread and a network-independent seed vector representing seeding in different regions-of-interest. This parametric model was validated on an independent group of subjects from the same cohort. We were able to predict with reasonably high accuracy the tau buildup at a future time-point. The network diffusion model, therefore, successfully identifies two distinct mechanisms for tau buildup in the aging brain and offers a macroscopic perspective on tau spread.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31156312	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31156312	Alzheimer
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Higher Body Mass Index Is Associated with Lower Cortical Amyloid-β Burden in Cognitively Normal Individuals in Late-Life.	Higher late-life BMI is associated with lower cortical Aβ burden in cognitively normal individuals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31156169	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31156169	Alzheimer
Chemistry & biodiversity	Design, Synthesis, and Cholinesterase Inhibition Assay of Coumarin-3-carboxamide-N-morpholine Hybrids as New Anti-Alzheimer Agents.	A new series of coumarin-3-carboxamide-N-morpholine hybrids 5a-5l was designed and synthesized as cholinesterases inhibitors. The synthetic approach for title compounds was started from the reaction between 2-hydroxybenzaldehyde derivatives and Meldrum's acid to afford corresponding coumarin-3-carboxylic acids. Then, amidation of the latter compounds with 2-morpholinoethylamine or N-(3-aminopropyl)morpholine led to the formation of the compounds 5a-5l. The in vitro inhibition screen against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) revealed that most of the synthesized compounds had potent AChE inhibitory while their BuChE inhibitions are moderate to weak. Among them, propylmorpholine derivative 5g (N-[3-(morpholin-4-yl)propyl]-2-oxo-2H-chromene-3-carboxamide) bearing an unsubstituted coumarin moiety and ethylmorpholine derivative 5d (6-bromo-N-[2-(morpholin-4-yl)ethyl]-2-oxo-2H-chromene-3-carboxamide) bearing a 6-bromocoumarin moiety showed the most activity against AChE and BuChE, respectively. The inhibitory activity of compound 5g against AChE was 1.78 times more than that of rivastigmine and anti-BuChE activity of compound 5d is approximately same as rivastigmine. Kinetic and docking studies confirmed the dual binding site ability of compound 5g to inhibit AChE.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31155827	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31155827	Alzheimer
Annals of neurology	A metabolic profile of polyamines in parkinson disease: A promising biomarker.	Spermine synthesis and N1,N8-diacetylspermidine may respectively be useful diagnostic and severity-associated biomarkers for PD. ANN NEUROL 2019;86:251-263.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31155745	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31155745	Alzheimer
