Salud publica de Mexico	Overview of acute diarrheal disease at the dawn of the 21st century: The case of Mexico.	Los casos de diarrea, incluyendo los de rotavirus, han disminuido en el país. Sin embargo, en 2016 se encontró una tasa de 3.4 por 100 000 personas que mueren por EDA, lo cual podría evitarse con promoción de la salud.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Mexico	31314211	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314211	Diarrhea
Journal of medicinal food	Phytochemical/Antioxidant Properties and Individual/Synergistic Actions of 	Medicinal plants are known by pharmacological relevance and were used for long time to prevent/treat numerous gastrointestinal (GI) disorders. The current study focuses on the phytochemical/antioxidant characteristics of sage aqueous extract (SAE), as well as its pharmacological actions on altering motor function in the intestine and related disruptions. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313944	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313944	Diarrhea
Journal of veterinary internal medicine	Clinical effect of probiotics in prevention or treatment of gastrointestinal disease in dogs: A systematic review.	The current data point toward a very limited and possibly clinically unimportant effect for prevention or treatment of acute gastrointestinal disease. For chronic gastrointestinal disease, dietary intervention remains the major key in treatment, whereas probiotic supplement seems not to add significant improvement. However, studies were often underpowered, underscoring the need for future larger, preferably multicenter studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313372	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313372	Diarrhea
Journal of preventive medicine and hygiene	Association of mother's handwashing practices and pediatric diarrhea: evidence from a multi-country study on community oriented interventions.	Access to safe drinking water was reportedly higher for communities in Guatemala and Zambia (> 80%), than those in Cambodia and Kenya (< 63%), with significantly higher levels in intervention sites for Guatemala and Kenya. Improved sanitation was low (< 10%), for Kenya and Zambia, compared to Cambodia and Guatemala (> 40%); intervention sites reporting significantly higher levels, except for Zambia. Hand washing index; hand washing before food preparation, after defecation, attending to a child after defecation, and before feeding children was significantly higher for intervention sites in Cambodia, Guatemala and Kenya (Cambodia, 2.4 vs 2.2, p < 0.001, Guatemala, 3.0 vs 2.5, p < 0.001, Kenya, 2.6 vs 2.3, p < 0.001). Factors significantly associated with lower odds of diarrhea were; mother's marital status, higher educational status, one or more handwashing practices, wealthier quintiles, older (> 24 m), and female children. The findings suggest that caretaker handwashing with soap or ash has a protective effect on prevalence of diarrhea in children.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31312738	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312738	Diarrhea
The Pan African medical journal	Rotavirus-associated acute diarrhea outbreak in West Shewa Zone of Oromia Regional State, Ethiopia, 2017.	Diarrheal outbreak which occurred in West-Shewa zone of Ethiopia was associated with rotavirus and relatively more affected districts with low vaccination coverage. Routine rotavirus vaccination quality and coverage should be evaluated and the surveillance system needs to be strengthened to detect, prevent and control a similar outbreak.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312314	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312314	Diarrhea
World journal of oncology	A Case of Pneumatosis Intestinalis With Pneumoperitoneum as a Potential Delayed Adverse Effect of Capecitabine.	Ileitis and colitis are known complications of capecitabine when used in patients with gastrointestinal cancers. However, to our knowledge, pneumatosis intestinalis (PI) has not previously been reported with this medication. We present a patient with breast cancer, without any metastases to the gastrointestinal tract, who presented with persistent diarrhea 4 weeks after discontinuing adjuvant capecitabine, which was found to be due to PI. As she had no other risk factors or identifiable causes, her PI was attributed to a delayed reaction to capecitabine. This case highlights the need to consider PI earlier in the differential diagnosis in patients with breast cancer who present with unexplained diarrhea after recent discontinuation of capecitabine.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Canada	31312282	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312282	Diarrhea
Scientific reports	Pretreatment with probiotic Enterococcus faecium NCIMB 11181 ameliorates necrotic enteritis-induced intestinal barrier injury in broiler chickens.	The dysfunction of tight-junction integrity caused by necrotic enteritis (NE) is associated with decreased nutrient absorption and gut injury in broiler chickens. Although probiotic Enterococcus faecium (E. faecium) has been reported to possess immune-regulatory characteristics and can prevent diarrhea in pigs, very little information exists in relation to the specific regulatory impact of E. faecium NCIMB 11181 on NE-induced intestinal barrier injury of broiler chickens. This study was conducted to investigate the protective effects of probiotic E. faecium NCIMB 11181 on NE-induced intestinal barrier injury in broiler chickens. The study also aimed to elucidate the mechanisms that underpin these protective effects. One hundred and eighty Arbor Acres (AA) broiler chicks (one day old) were randomly assigned using a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement into two groups fed different levels of dietary E. faecium NCIMB 11181 (0 or 2 × 10	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311959	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311959	Diarrhea
Preventive veterinary medicine	Effect of intervention practices to control the porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED) outbreak during the first epidemic year (2013-2014) on time to absence of clinical signs and the number of dead piglets per sow in Japan.	Porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED) is an emerging and/or re-emerging disease of pigs in several countries, with high morbidity and mortality in suckling piglets. Farms affected with PED perform various intervention practices to control and/or eliminate the PED virus. The objectives of the present study were to assess the effect of biosecurity measures and intervention practices to control PED on time to absence of clinical signs (TAC) and number of dead suckling piglets during TAC. A questionnaire was administered to 120-PED affected farms located across Japan between 2013, when the first case was reported in Japan, and 2014. Farms were asked to provide information on farm characteristics and internal or external biosecurity measures during PED outbreak, as well as on intervention practices to control PED. The TAC was defined as the number of days from the date that clinical PED signs appeared to the date that clinical PED signs disappeared. The number of dead piglets per sow (DP/S) was calculated as the number of dead suckling piglets during TAC divided by the sow inventory. Regarding the effect of biosecurity measures during PED outbreak on TAC and DP/S, longer TAC was observed in Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae-positive farms and farms outsourcing pig transport to the slaughterhouse (p <  0.05). In addition, farms with divided truck entrances had lower DP/S than those without divided entrances (p <  0.05).Regarding the effect of intervention practices to control PED on TAC and DP/S, farms that performed feedback at 2 weeks or later after PED outbreak had longer TAC and higher DP/S than other farms (p <  0.05). Farms that fixed the hours staff worked in farrowing barn had lower DP/S than the other farms (p <  0.05). In conclusion, variables associated with long TAC were Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae -positive farms, farms outsourcing pig transport to the slaughterhouse, and farms performing feedback at 2 week or later after PED outbreak. Additionally, those associated with high DP/S were farms without divided entrances, farms without a fixed hours worked in the barn, and farms that performed feedback at 2 week or later after PED outbreak.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31311633	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311633	Diarrhea
International journal of environmental research and public health	Effect of Contextualized Versus Non-Contextualized Interventions for Improving Hand Washing, Sanitation, and Health in Rural Tanzania: Study Design of a Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial.	Nearly 90% of diarrhea-related mortalities are the result of unsafe drinking water, poor sanitation, and insufficient hygiene. Although "Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene" (WASH) interventions may significantly reduce the risk of diarrheal disease, it is currently unclear which interventions are the most effective. In this study, we aim to determine the importance of contextualizing a WASH intervention to the local context and the needs for increasing impact (Clinicaltrials.gov NCT03709368). A total of 1500 households in rural Tanzania will participate in this cluster randomized controlled trial. Households will be randomized into one of three cohorts: (1) a control group receiving a basic intervention and 1 placebo household visit, (2) an intervention group receiving a basic intervention + 9 additional household visits which are contextualized to the setting using the RANAS approach, and (3) an intervention group receiving a basic intervention + 9 additional household visits, which are not contextualized, i.e., a general intervention. Assessments will take place at a baseline, 1 and 2 years after the start of the intervention, and 1 year after the completion of the intervention. Measurements involve questionnaires and spot checks. The primary outcome is hand-washing behavior, secondary objectives include, the impact on latrine use, health, WASH infrastructure, quality of life, and cost-effectiveness.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311186	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311186	Diarrhea
International journal of surgery case reports	Small bowel-small bowel intussusception with high grade obstruction due to intramural submucosal ileal hamartoma in a 5-year-old child: A case report.	We report an unusual case of intussusception with small bowel obstruction due to intestinal hamartoma, a rare pathologic finding as a lead point for intussusception. Ultrasound was useful for diagnosing the intussusception and confirming the presence of a lead point.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310859	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310859	Diarrhea
PloS one	Changes in cecal microbiota community of suckling piglets infected with porcine epidemic diarrhea virus.	Diarrhea, caused by porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), is a catastrophic gastrointestinal disease among suckling piglets, with high infectivity, morbidity, and mortality, causing huge economic losses to the pig industry. In the present study, we investigated the different microbiota from the cecal mucosa and cecal contents between healthy and PEDV-infected piglets. High-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed to explore differences. The results revealed that microbial dysbiosis by PEDV infection occurred in the cecal mucosa and contents of suckling piglets at each microbial taxonomic level. The abundance of pathogenic bacteria associated with diseases, including diarrhea, was increased. The abundance of Fusobacterium was 26.71% and 33.91% in cecal mucosa and contents of PEDV-infected group, respectively, whereas that in the healthy groups was 17.85% and 9.88%. The proportion of Proteobacteria in the infected groups was relatively high (24.67% and 22.79%, respectively), whereas that in the healthy group was 13.13% and 11.34% in the cecal mucosa and contents, respectively. Additionally, the proportion of Bacteroidetes in the healthy group (29.89%, 37.32%) was approximately twice that of the PEDV-infected group (15.50%, 15.39%). "Nitrate reduction", "Human pathogens diarrhea", "Human pathogens gastroenteritis", "Nitrite respiration", and "Nitrite ammonification" were the enriched functional annotation terms in the PEDV-infected groups. Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus infection increased the proportion of harmful bacteria and decreased the proportion of beneficial bacteria in the cecal mucosa and contents of suckling piglets. Our findings suggest that determining the intestinal microbiota might provide a promising method to prevent PEDV and open a new avenue for future research.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310635	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310635	Diarrhea
Blood research	Safety and efficacy of bendamustine in the conditioning regimen for autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphoma.	Our study showed that bendamustine is a potentially toxic agent in the conditioning regimen for autologous SCT, resulting in significant liver, kidney, and gastrointestinal toxicity. Further studies are required to assess its safety and efficacy at reduced doses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31309088	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309088	Diarrhea
Drug design, development and therapy	Immune-related adverse events following administration of anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein-4 drugs: a comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis.	None	2019	eng	Review	New Zealand	31308633	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308633	Diarrhea
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research	Molecular and Clinical Activity of CDX-3379, an Anti-ErbB3 Monoclonal Antibody, in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma.	This study demonstrates that CDX-3379 can inhibit tumor ErbB3 phosphorylation in HNSCC. CDX-3379 was well tolerated and associated with measurable tumor regression. A phase 2 study (NCT03254927) has been initiated to evaluate CDX-3379 in combination with cetuximab for patients with advanced HNSCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308059	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308059	Diarrhea
Annals of clinical and laboratory science	Total Bilirubin Is Associated with Small Intestinal Bacterial Overgrowth in Diarrhea Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome.	These findings suggest that total bilirubin levels may provide additional information regarding the presence of SIBO in diarrhea-predominant IBS patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308034	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308034	Diarrhea
Progres en urologie : journal de l'Association francaise d'urologie et de la Societe francaise d'urologie	[Management of patients with systemic treatments].	To date, systemic treatments, including hormone therapies or chemotherapy, are used at different stages of prostate cancer disease. Several types of complications can occur during systemic treatment in prostate cancer, depending on the therapeutic range. The most common with hormone therapy are fatigue, muscle loss, bone loss, high blood pressure and metabolic syndromes. For chemotherapy, the most significant risk is related to hematological toxicity, but peripheral neuropathies, mucositis, diarrhea and hypersensitivity reactions may also occur. The quality of the pre-treatment assessment and the rigorousness of patient follow-up make it possible to anticipate most of these events, to prevent them or to manage them at an early stage when they occur. The most important aspect is patient education, which involves comprehensive information and the implementation of supportive care as soon as the treatment is initiated. Specialized advice (e. g. cardiological or endocrinological) is recommended in the event of uncontrolled symptomatology. The resumption of treatment leading to a major complication should be the subject of a multidisciplinary discussion taking into account the severity of the event, its reversibility, the patient's life expectancy and the expected efficacy of the molecule.	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31307630	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307630	Diarrhea
Parasites & vectors	Cryptosporidium parvum and Cryptosporidium hominis subtypes in crab-eating macaques.	Data from the study suggest that crab-eating macaques are infected with diverse C. parvum and C. hominis subtypes. The C. parvum IIo subtype family previously seen in rodents in China has apparently expanded its host range.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307508	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307508	Diarrhea
BMC public health	Risk factors of morbidity among children under age five in Ethiopia.	The study indicated that male children, 0-11 months aged children, 12-23 months aged children, anemic children, husband with a lower education, mothers paid employment, non-breastfed children, regions of Amhara, Afar, Dire Dawa, Benishangul, Gambela, Oromia, SNNPR, Somali and Tigray were significantly associated with higher odds of morbidity in Ethiopia. Therefore, there is a need for children morbidity interventions intended to improve child health outcomes in the country.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307433	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307433	Diarrhea
NPJ science of food	Effect of bovine milk fat globule membranes as a complementary food on the serum metabolome and immune markers of 6-11-month-old Peruvian infants.	This study builds on a previous study by this group in which 6-11-month-old Peruvian infants who were fed bovine milk fat globule membrane (MFGM) containing complementary food had significantly fewer episodes of infection-related bloody diarrhea relative to those consuming a control food (skim milk powder). Micronutrient deficiencies including zinc deficiency were prevalent in this study population. To understand the mechanism behind the health benefits of consuming MFGM, the serum metabolome and cytokine levels, as markers for systemic immune responses, were evaluated using 	2018	eng	Journal Article	England	31304256	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304256	Diarrhea
Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie	Berberine improves intestinal epithelial tight junctions by upregulating A20 expression in IBS-D mice.	To investigate effects of berberine exerts on A20 expression and regulation of intestinal epithelial tight junctions via the TNF-α-NF-κB-MLCK pathway in Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS-D). C57BL/6 wild type (WT) and A20 IEC-KO mice (48 each) were randomly divided into normal control (NC), model control (MC), rifaximin and berberine groups (12 mice per group). An experimental model of IBS-D was established using 4% acetic acid and evaluated by haematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining. rifaximin and berberine mice were treated with rifaximin and berberine, respectively. Intestinal epithelial space of WT berberine mice improved more than A20 IEC-KO berberine mice compared to MC mice. WT berberine mice exhibited greater expression of A20 compared with MC mice(P < 0.01). TNF-α, NF-kB p65, MLCK, MLC, TRAF6 and RIP1 levels in A20 IEC-KO and WT berberine mice were all decreased compared to MC mice(P all<0.05). NF-κB p65, MLCK and TRAF6 levels were increased in A20 IEC-KO berberine mice as compared to WT berberine mice (P all<0.05). Intestinal epithelial levels of occludin, claudin-1, ZO-1 and F-actin increased in all berberine mice (P all<0.01-0.05), while occludin, claudin-1, and ZO-1 levels were lower in A20 IEC-KO berberine mice(P < 0.05). Berberine downregulates abnormal activation of the TNF-α-NF-κB-MLCK pathway by upregulating expression of A20 in a mouse model of IBS-D, thereby protecting intestinal epithelial tight junctions and repairing the damage IBS-D causes to the intestinal epithelial barrier.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31306972	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306972	Diarrhea
Biology of blood and marrow transplantation : journal of the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation	Outcomes of Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation in Patients with Germline SAMD9/SAMD9L Mutations.	Germline mutations in SAMD9 and SAMD9L genes cause MIRAGE (OMIM: *610456) and ataxia-pancytopenia (OMIM: *611170) syndromes, respectively, and are associated with chromosome 7 deletions, myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), and bone marrow failure. In this retrospective series, we report outcomes of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in patients with hematologic disorders associated with SAMD9/SAMD9L mutations. Twelve patients underwent allogeneic HCT for MDS (n=10), congenital amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia (n=1), and dyskeratosis congenita (n=1). Exome sequencing revealed heterozygous mutations in SAMD9 (n=6) or SAMD9L (n=6) genes. Four SAMD9 patients had features of MIRAGE syndrome. Median age at HCT was 2.8 years (range: 1.2-12.8). Conditioning was myeloablative in 9 cases and reduced-intensity in 3 cases. Syndrome-related comorbidities (diarrhea, infections, adrenal insufficiency, malnutrition, and electrolyte imbalance) were present in MIRAGE syndrome cases. One patient with a familial SAMD9L mutation, MDS and morbid obesity failed to engraft and died from refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The other 11 patients achieved neutrophil engraftment. Acute post-transplant course was complicated by syndrome related comorbidities in MIRAGE cases. A patient with SAMD9L associated MDS, died of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. The other 10 patients had resolution of hematological disorder and sustained peripheral blood donor chimerism. Ten out of 12 patients were alive with a median follow-up of 3.1 years (range: 0.1-14.7). More data are needed to refine transplant approaches in SAMD9/SAMD9L patients with significant comorbidities and to develop guidelines for their long-term follow-up.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306780	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306780	Diarrhea
Journal of clinical gastroenterology	Breath Methane Does Not Correlate With Constipation Severity or Bloating in Patients With Constipation.	We found that constipation and bloating severity did not correlate with methane levels on GBT. In addition, only higher baseline methane levels (≥10 and ≥20 ppm) significantly correlated with constipation as baseline methane levels up to 5 ppm were equally common in patients with diarrhea and constipation. Baseline methane levels had better correlation with constipation compared with maximum levels of methane achieved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306344	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306344	Diarrhea
Current opinion in infectious diseases	A One Health approach to prevention, treatment, and control of campylobacteriosis.	Campylobacter spp. infection is a common infection worldwide. Antibiotic-resistant Campylobacter spp. has become an emerging threat with the increase in industrial poultry production, as well as the broad use of antibiotics in both animals and humans.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305492	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305492	Diarrhea
Anti-cancer drugs	Efficacy and safety of apatinib in advanced sarcoma: an open-label, nonrandomized, single-center study of 45 patients.	Sarcoma is a rare tumor with more than 50 histologic subtypes. Patients with advanced sarcoma have a poor prognosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of apatinib, an oral vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 inhibitor, as salvage treatment for advanced bone and soft tissue sarcomas. From May 2017 to July 2018, a prospective, open-label, nonrandomized, clinical trial of apatinib was carried out in selected patients with advanced sarcoma. After apatinib dosing, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), objective response rate, disease control rate, and treatment-related adverse events (AEs) were reviewed and evaluated. Patients were administered apatinib for at least 1 month. Median follow-up time was 6.00 months (1-13 months). The median PFS was 7.88 months, with the longest PFS of 13 months observed in a patient with epithelial sarcoma. The 3-month PFS rate was 66.44%. The median OS was 11.64 months with significant differences observed based on disease subtypes. Four patients achieved a partial response, and 36 patients achieved stable disease. The objective response rate was 8.88% (4/45), and the disease control rate was 88.89% (40/45). The most common grade 3/4 treatment-related AEs were hypertension (12.50%), hand-foot syndrome (6.67%), diarrhea (12.50%), fatigue (6.25%), and proteinuria (14.29%). One drug-related severe AE of thrombocytopenia (21×10/l) occurred 2 months after therapy. Apatinib treatment in our study exhibited objective efficacy in PFS, OS, and manageable toxicity in patients with advanced sarcoma. This result supports future randomized controlled trials to further define apatinib activity in stage IV sarcomas.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305297	Diarrhea
Journal of psychopharmacology (Oxford, England)	Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and benzodiazepines in panic disorder: A meta-analysis of common side effects in acute treatment.	Randomized, blinded studies comparing SSRIs and BZs for the short-term treatment of PD should be performed. Clinical guidelines based on incontrovertible evidence are needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304840	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304840	Diarrhea
Global health research and policy	Priority setting towards achieving under-five mortality target in Africa in context of sustainable development goals: an ordinary least squares (OLS) analysis.	Our results show that the gap between the best and worst performing countries in Africa can be significantly narrowed if government and donor interventions will target downstream factors such as improving education for mothers and sensitising them about birth control since fertility rate differences play a critical role. Improving accessibility to clean water sources to reduce outbreaks of diarrhea diseases is also observed as a critical factor.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304284	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304284	Diarrhea
The Pan African medical journal	[Spontaneous gastric perforation complicating spontaneous acute bronchiolitis in an infant].	Spontaneous gastric perforation is rare in infants and the mechanisms leading to its onset are poorly understood. This study reports the first case of spontaneous gastric perforation occurred in Congo. This case report describes a 5-month years old female infant who, on the fourth day of hospitalization for severe acute bronchiolitis associated with diarrhea complicated by moderate acute dehydration, had violent onset of severe and painful abdominal distension associated with signs of shock. Abdominal x-ray without treatment showed a large volume pneumoperitoneum. Laparotomy showed round perforation on the posterior wall of the stomach which was sutured. The postoperative course was marked by the occurrence of septic shock and by infant death.	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31303912	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303912	Diarrhea
Saudi journal of biological sciences	Risk factors associated with 	Calf diarrhea is one of the major health challenges in cattle herds. The bacteriological examination of fecal samples collected from apparently healthy and diarrheic calves' revealed isolation of 26 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Saudi Arabia	31303844	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303844	Diarrhea
OncoTargets and therapy	The safety and efficacy of amrubicin in the treatment of previously untreated extensive-disease small-cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31303766	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303766	Diarrhea
Pakistan journal of pharmaceutical sciences	Molecular identification of blaCTX-M and blaTEM genes among multi-drug resistant Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli isolated from children.	In this cross sectional study (June 2016 to June 2017), we studied the isolation and molecular characterization of multi-drug resistant Escherichia coli (MDR-E. coli) from children suffering from diarrhea. For this purpose, a total of 100 fecal samples were collected with the consent of the parents/ guardians on a prescribed form. The bacterial isolation was done by employing conventional and standard microbiological procedures. Subsequently, all the isolates were identified on the basis of biochemical tests and were further characterized by amplification of 16S rRNA gene followed by di-deoxy sequencing of the amplified product. Afterwards, the isolates were subjected to antimicrobial susceptibility profiling using Kirby Bauer disc diffusion method. A total of 87 E. coli isolates were identified in the current study and majority of the isolates were found sensitive to all or few antimicrobials. However, 14 E. coli isolates were found resistance to multiple drugs including amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, cefoperazone and ofloxacin, hence termed as MDR-E. coli. All of the 14 isolates were further analyzed for the identification of blaCTX-M and blaTEM genes through PCR using specific primers. This resistant was found to be associated with the presence of plasmid encoded beta lactamases genes including blaCTX-M (13/14 E. coli isolates) and blaTEM (9/14 E. coli isolates). Altogether, it was found that ESBLs harboring E. coli is potential source of diarrhea among pediatric diarrheal patients. Therefore, molecular identification and characterization of bacterial pathogens along with antimicrobial susceptibility are critical to understand MDR- E. coli infections.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Pakistan	31303593	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303593	Diarrhea
Mayo Clinic proceedings	Adjuvant Therapy in High-Risk Renal Cell Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.	Adjuvant vascular endothelial growth factor tyrosine kinase inhibitors in high-risk renal cell carcinoma did not improve OS or DFS, and there was a significant increased risk of toxicity in greater than half of the patients, leading to a decline in quality of life.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303430	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303430	Diarrhea
The Journal of arthroplasty	Clostridium difficile Colitis Following Revision Total Knee Arthroplasty: Incidence and Risk Factors.	The incidence of CDAD after rTKA is approximately 0.4% in the United States. Independent risk factors for CDAD include septic revision, preoperative functional dependence, and cancer. Prevention of CDAD in these higher risk patients must be considered before surgery and antibiotic selection for other infections should be managed judiciously.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303378	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303378	Diarrhea
Veterinary parasitology	The Cryptosporidium parvum gp60 glycoprotein expressed in the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila is immunoreactive with sera of calves infected with Cryptosporidium oocysts.	Cryptosporidium parvum is a protozoan parasite of the phylum Apicomplexa responsible for cryptosporidiosis in calves, a disease that causes significant diarrhea and impairs gain of body weight, generating important production losses. As to now, no effective drugs or vaccines are available for the treatment or prevention of bovine cryptosporidiosis. Several reports suggest that development of a vaccine to prevent cryptosporidiosis is feasible, but relatively few vaccine candidates have been characterized and tested. The most prominent C. parvum antigen is gp60, an O-glycosylated mucin-like protein tethered to the parasite membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. Gp60 has been shown to be involved in essential mechanisms for the survival of C. parvum, such as recognition, adhesion to, and invasion of host cells. This work was aimed at expressing gp60 in Tetrahymena thermophila, a ciliated protozoon with numerous advantages for the heterologous expression of eukaryotic proteins, as a first approach for the development of a recombinant vaccine for bovine cryptosporidiosis. T. thermophila-expressed gp60 localized to the protozoon cell surface and oral apparatus, and partitioned into the Triton X-114 detergent phase. This indicates that the protein entered the reticuloendothelial system of the ciliate, and suggests it contains a GPI-anchor. Homogenates of gp60-expressing T. thermophila cells were recognized by sera from calves naturally infected with C. parvum demonstrating their immunoreactivity. In summary, the heterologous expression of gp60, a C. parvum-encoded GPI-anchored protein, has been successfully demonstrated in the ciliate T. thermophila.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303202	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303202	Diarrhea
The British journal of nutrition	Iron Status and Inherited Hemoglobin Disorders Modify the Effects of Micronutrient Powders on Linear Growth and Morbidity among Young Lao Children in a Double-Blind Randomized Trial.	Some studies found that providing micronutrient powder (MNP) causes adverse health outcomes; modifying factors are unknown. We aimed to investigate if iron status and inherited hemoglobin disorders (IHbD) modify the impact of MNP on growth and diarrhea among young Lao children. In a double-blind controlled trial, 1704 children ages 6-23mo were randomized to: daily MNP (with 6mg iron plus 14 micronutrients) or placebo for ~36wks. IHbD, and baseline and final hemoglobin (Hb), iron status, and anthropometrics were assessed. Caregivers provided weekly morbidity reports. At enrollment 55.6% were anemic; only 39.3% had no sign of clinically significant IHbD. MNP had no overall impact on growth and longitudinal diarrhea prevalence. Baseline Hb modified the effect of MNP on LAZ (P for interaction=0.082). Among children who were initially non-anemic, final mean LAZ in the MNP group was slightly lower (-1.93 (95%CI: -1.88, -1.97)) vs. placebo (-1.88 (95%CI: -1.83, -1.92)), and the opposite occurred among initially anemic children (final mean LAZ -1.90 (95% CI: -1.86, -1.94) in MNP vs. -1.92 (95% CI: -1.88, -1.96) in placebo). IHbD modified the effect on diarrhea prevalence (P=0.095). Among children with IHbD, the MNP group had higher diarrhea prevalence (1.37 (95%CI: 1.17, 1.59) vs. 1.21 (95%CI: 1.04, 1.41)), while it was lower among children without IHbD who received MNP (1.15 (95%CI: 0.95, 1.39) vs. 1.37 (95%CI: 1.13, 1.64)). In conclusion, there was a small adverse effect of MNP on growth among non-anemic children and on diarrhea prevalence among children with IHbD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303184	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303184	Diarrhea
Clinical journal of gastroenterology	A case of phlegmonous gastritis with hepatic portal venous gas caused by Aeromonas hydrophila successfully treated with medication.	A 74-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital with epigastric pain, severe nausea and vomiting, and diarrhea that had started 3 days previously. She had eaten raw Ayu fish 4 days before admission. An abdominal contrast-enhanced computed tomography scan revealed the presence of gas in the portal vein and remarkable thickening of the gastric wall. In many cases, the gas in the portal vein indicates the existence of intestinal necrosis. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed a submucosal tumor-like elevation in the gastric corpus. She was diagnosed with sepsis and phlegmonous gastritis (PG) with hepatic portal venous gas (HPVG) caused by Aeromonas hydrophila, which was detected in her stool. The patient was treated with antibiotics and discharged from the hospital 23 days after admission in a stable condition. When caused by PG, HPVG is not necessarily considered a poor prognostic factor and is expected to be treatable with medication. However, patients should be closely monitored for signs of a life-threatening pathology such as intestinal necrosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31302879	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302879	Diarrhea
La Radiologia medica	Clostridium difficile colitis: CT findings and differential diagnosis.	Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) is a severe and potentially deadly infectious colitis whose incidence is dramatically increasing in the last decades, with more virulent strains. CDI should be suspected in case of unexplained diarrhea and abdominal pain in patients with a recent history of antibiotic use and healthcare exposures; diagnosis is based on a combination of clinical and laboratory findings with demonstration of C. difficile toxins by stool test. The advantages of contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) are the noninvasiveness and the ability to evaluate both the colonic wall and the adjacent soft tissues. Considerable overlap exists between the CECT findings of CDI and those of colitis of other origins, such as typhlitis, ischemic colitis, graft-versus-host disease, radiation colitis and inflammatory bowel diseases; however, some features may help distinguish between these conditions. This paper provides a comprehensive overview of the imaging features of Clostridium difficile colitis and its mimics, with a view to assist the radiologist in reaching the correct diagnosis.	2019	eng	Review	Italy	31302848	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302848	Diarrhea
Pediatric radiology	Diagnostic performance of ultrasound without any colon preparation for detecting colorectal polyps in pediatric patients.	The accuracy for detecting colorectal polyps by ultrasound was 89% (95% CI, 80-95%) in our cohort. Polyps found in the rectum and relatively smaller polyps accounted for several false-negative cases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302736	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302736	Diarrhea
Journal of minimally invasive gynecology	Efficacy of antibiotic prophylaxis for hysteroscopy: a meta-analysis of randomized trials.	The use of antibiotics appears not to be beneficial to prevent infection after hysteroscopy, however, the lack of high-quality studies makes it difficult to draw firm conclusions. Considering the very low infection rate highlighted after hysteroscopic procedures a difference will probably never be proven in a randomized trial. Big population program data to confirm these results are therefore warranted.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31302246	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302246	Diarrhea
Gastroenterology	American Gastroenterological Association Guideline on Mild-to-Moderate Ulcerative Colitis on the Laboratory Evaluation of Functional Diarrhea and Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome in Adults (IBS-D).	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302098	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302098	Diarrhea
Virus research	Emergence of porcine epidemic diarrhea viruses with the novel S genes in Tibetan pigs in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau in China.	The purpose of present study was to investigate the prevalence and genetic variation of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) in Tibetan pigs on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau in 2018. The PCR yielded a significantly high detection rate (38.34%, 95%CI=31.5-45.6%) for PEDV from 193 fecal samples from Tibetan pigs. The novel PEDVs were discovered in Tibetan pigs and seven complete S genes were obtained and analyzed. The unique multiple mutations were detected in S genes of PEDV from Tibetan pigs, one of which led to a new amino acid substitution of a neutralizing epitope. Phylogenetic analysis showed that seven S genes had significant genetic distance to other PEDV. Specially, two S genes formed a novel subgroup on the genogroup 2 (G2) branch, of which same recombination event occurred between different strains from genotype G2. The remaining five S genes formed a new subgroup on the G1 branch, among which distinct recombination events occurred between genotypes G1 and G2 strains. The result indicated that the new recombination events were detected in the S genes of PEDV from Tibetan pigs, which could be circulating in the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Notably, the four complete PEDV genomes obtained in this study had an identical recombination region spanning S2, ORF3 and E genes. This is the first report of the crossover regional recombination event in PEDV genome. Our findings not only augmented current understanding of the genetic evolution of PEDV, but also indicated that new variants of PEDV strains have been emerging in Tibetan pigs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31301333	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301333	Diarrhea
Digestive diseases and sciences	Epidemiology of Large Bowel Carcinoid Tumors in the USA: A Population-Based National Study.	This is the largest epidemiological study evaluating the prevalence of LBC. We estimated the prevalence rate of LBC to be 7.21/100,000. The presence of significant risk factors with the clinical picture suspicious for a LBC should warrant thorough evaluation as these tumors can lead to life-threatening complications. Further studies are needed to better understand the mechanism of association between these risk factors and LBC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300994	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300994	Diarrhea
AMB Express	Preparation and characterization of a single-domain antibody specific for the porcine epidemic diarrhea virus spike protein.	Porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED) is a diarrheal disease of swine caused by porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV). It is characterized by acute watery diarrhea, dehydration and vomiting in swine of all ages and is especially fatal for neonatal and postweaning piglets. The spike protein of PEDV plays an important role in mediating virus attachment and fusion to target cells, and recent studies also reported that the neutralizing epitopes of the spike protein were mainly located in the S1 subunit, which makes it a candidate for vaccine development and clinical diagnosis. In this study, we successfully constructed an immune phage display single-domain antibody library with a library size of 3.4 × 10	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31300902	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300902	Diarrhea
Scientific reports	Characterization of bacterial community changes and antibiotic resistance genes in lamb manure of different incidence.	Bacterial enteritis is the most important disease in lamb for breeding greatly affects the growth of animals. Changes in the community of intestinal flora can cause the disorder of the colonic environment induced diarrhea. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the incidence of bacterial enteritis and the number of intestinal microbiome, then the prevalence of drug-resistant genes was detected. Fecal samples were collected at five fattening sheep farms with different incidence of bacterial enteritis, pathogenic bacteria were isolated and identified, drug sensitivity tests were performed. Then, changes in number and structure of intestinal flora were compared by 16S rDNA V3-V4 region high-throughput sequencing, and the ARGs were detected using high-throughput real-time PCR. Our results revealed that the microbial communities were positively correlated with the incidence of bacterial enteritis in different farms. Bacterial communities were higher in YJ (with highest incidence of diarrhea) than any other farms. However, the ARGs seemed not to be more affected by the incidence of bacterial enteritis, but one of the significant findings to emerge from this study is that MCR-1 and NDM are detected in manure. This study has provided an insight of the changes occurring in intestinal flora and AGRs in fattening sheep farms with diverse incidence of bacterial enteritis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300748	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300748	Diarrhea
The American journal of case reports	First Report of Fatal Secondary Abdominal Compartment Syndrome Induced by Intestinal Gas Accumulation without Organic Occlusive Intestinal Lesion in a Child with Sepsis.	BACKGROUND Abdominal compartment syndrome (ACS), characterized by an increased intra-abdominal pressure and new-onset organ dysfunction, is a critical and potentially fatal condition, with no case of ACS caused by intestinal gas without intestinal lesion being reported to date. CASE REPORT A 2-year-old girl with a chromosomal abnormality of 1p36 deletion presented with fever and diarrhea following upper-gastrointestinal series for the evaluation of gastroesophageal reflux. After 20 days, she experienced septic shock and multiple-organ failure, accompanied with rapidly growing, severe abdominal distension. A marked increase in the intra-abdominal pressure was indicated by the complete loss of elasticity in the extremely hard and distended abdomen. She died 14 h after the onset of shock. Her autopsy examination revealed extensive pneumonia and excessive intestinal gas, despite no occlusive intestinal lesion present. CONCLUSIONS It is critical to be aware that secondary ACS can occur following sepsis due to the accumulation of extensive intestinal gas, without an occlusive intestinal lesion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300635	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300635	Diarrhea
Canadian family physician Medecin de famille canadien	Traveler's diarrhea.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31300433	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300433	Diarrhea
Applied and environmental microbiology	Biocide resistance and transmission of 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300397	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300397	Diarrhea
Comparative immunology, microbiology and infectious diseases	Antimicrobial resistances, and molecular typing of Campylobacter jejuni isolates, separated from food-producing animals and diarrhea patients in Iran.	The aims of this study were to regain new epidemiology information about frequency, drug resistance rates, and typing of Campylobacter jejuni (C. jejuni) isolates, obtained from some poultry and cattle farms, slaughterhouses, and people with diarrhea. In this regard, Minimal Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) of several antibiotics and the associated antibiotic resistance genes, including tetO, tetA, cmeB, and bla	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300113	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300113	Diarrhea
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Massive Lower Gastrointestinal Bleeding Due to Fulminant Necrotizing Amebic Colitis: A Diagnostic and Therapeutic Challenge.	Acute fulminant necrotizing amebic colitis rarely presents with massive lifethreatening lower gastrointestinal bleeding without diarrhea. Diagnosis is difficult as colonoscopy is suboptimal due to active bleeding, stool testing is often negative and a positive serology cannot confirm the diagnosis. We herein report a case of a 39-year-old male who presented with profuse bleeding per rectum, without associated significant antecedent history of fever or diarrhea. Colonoscopy was inconclusive as active bleeding obscured the vision. Computed tomography of abdomen revealed non-specific thickening of the caecum. Emergency laparotomy with right hemicolectomy and temporary ileostomy was performed. Microscopic examination of colonic mucosa revealed Entamoeba histolytica trophozoites with erythrophagocytosis suggestive of fulminant amebic colitis. Intravenous metronidazole was given subsequently and patient recovered completely. Ileocolonic anastomosis was done after closing the ileostomy three months later. This case highlights this exceedingly rare presentation of fulminant amebic colitis which poses a diagnostic challenge and can be life threatening without early surgical intervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31299848	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299848	Diarrhea
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Predictors of Severity in Scrub Typhus.	Scrub typhus can manifest with potentially life-threatening complications such as meningoencephalitis, septic shock, ARDS, acute liver failure, acute kidney injury, severe thrombocytopenia. Leukocytosis, hyperbilirubinemia, transaminitis, hypoalbuminemia, and uremia were associated with organ failure and were significantly associated with morbidity and mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31299836	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299836	Diarrhea
Neuroscience	In Vivo Pharmacological Comparison of TAK-071, a Positive Allosteric Modulator of Muscarinic M	Activation of the M	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299348	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299348	Diarrhea
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	Slowed gastric emptying and improved oral glucose tolerance produced by a nanomolar-potency inhibitor of calcium-activated chloride channel TMEM16A.	Interstitial cells of Cajal, which express the calcium-activated chloride channel transmembrane member 16A (TMEM16A), are an important determinant of gastrointestinal (GI) motility. We previously identified the acylaminocycloalkylthiophene class of TMEM16A inhibitors, which, following medicinal chemistry, gave analog 2-bromodifluoroacetylamino-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-4H-cyclohepta[b]thiophene-3-carboxylic acid 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299174	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299174	Diarrhea
Investigational new drugs	Phase 1b study of a small molecule antagonist of human chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 2 (PF-04136309) in combination with nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine in first-line treatment of metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.	Background In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2 (CCL2)/chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 2 (CCR2) axis plays a key role in immunosuppressive properties of the tumor microenvironment, patient prognosis, and chemoresistance. This phase Ib study assessed the effects of the orally administered CCR2 inhibitor PF-04136309 in combination with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine in patients with previously untreated metastatic PDAC. Methods Patients received PF-04136309 twice daily (BID) continuously plus nab-paclitaxel (125 mg/m	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297636	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297636	Diarrhea
BMC gastroenterology	The effect of CFTR modulators on a cystic fibrosis patient presenting with recurrent pancreatitis in the absence of respiratory symptoms: a case report.	These findings support a possible relationship between the use of CFTR modulators, such as ivacaftor, in the management of recurrent pancreatitis in the setting of patients with cystic fibrosis and a CFTR mutation with residual CFTR activity or otherwise known to be responsive in vitro. Ivacaftor may be useful for recurrent pancreatitis, even in the absence of respiratory morbidity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296159	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296159	Diarrhea
Journal of the Canadian Association of Gastroenterology	Canadian Association of Gastroenterology Clinical Practice Guideline for the Management of Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).	Patients with IBS may benefit from a multipronged, individualized approach to treatment, including dietary modifications, psychological and pharmacological therapies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31294724	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294724	Diarrhea
Journal of the Canadian Association of Gastroenterology	The Impact of Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Canada 2018: Quality of Life.	Patients with IBD experience emotional distress that reduces HRQOL. Clinical tools are necessary to identify the key factors causing psychological distress in patients with IBD.HRQOL is reduced in individuals with IBD and their families. Studies should evaluate the cumulative burden of IBD on HRQOL in patients with IBD and their caregivers.Patient self-perception of their IBD influences their HRQOL. Clinical studies of interventions that improve adaptive coping are needed to reduce psychosocial distress.Multidisciplinary care including a psychologist to screen for and manage psychosocial risk and psychological distress should be evaluated in IBD clinics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31294384	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294384	Diarrhea
Frontiers in veterinary science	Risk Attitudes Affect Livestock Biosecurity Decisions With Ramifications for Disease Control in a Simulated Production System.	Hog producers' operational decisions can be informed by an awareness of risks associated with emergent and endemic diseases. Outbreaks of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDv) have been re-occurring every year since the first onset in 2013 with substantial losses across the hog production supply chain. Interestingly, a decreasing trend in PEDv incidence is visible. We assert that changes in human behaviors may underlie this trend. Disease prevention using biosecurity practices is used to minimize risk of infection but its efficacy is conditional on human behavior and risk attitude. Standard epidemiological models bring important insights into disease dynamics but have limited predictive ability. Since research shows that human behavior plays a driving role in the disease spread process, the explicit inclusion of human behavior into models adds an important dimension to understanding disease spread. Here we analyze PEDv incidence emerging from an agent-based model (ABM) that uses both epidemiological dynamics and algorithms that incorporate heterogeneous human decisions. We investigate the effects of shifting fractions of hog producers between risk tolerant and risk averse positions. These shifts affect the dynamics describing willingness to increase biosecurity as a response to disease threats and, indirectly, change infection probabilities and the resultant intensity and impact of the disease outbreak. Our ABM generates empirically verifiable patterns of PEDv transmission. Scenario results show that relatively small shifts (10% of the producer agents) toward a risk averse position can lead to a significant decrease in total incidence. For significantly steeper decreases in disease incidence, the model's hog producer population needed at least 37.5% of risk averse. Our study provides insight into the link between risk attitude, decisions related to biosecurity, and consequent spread of disease within a livestock production system. We suggest that it is possible to create positive, lasting changes in animal health by nudging the population of livestock producers toward more risk averse behaviors. We make a case for integrating social and epidemiological aspects in disease spread models to test intervention strategies intended to improve biosecurity and animal health at the system scale.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31294037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294037	Diarrhea
Journal of global health	An evaluation of a national oral rehydration solution and zinc scale-up program in Kenya between 2011 and 2016.	Kenya was successful in catalyzing uptake of combined treatment with ORS and zinc, which rose from 0.8% in 2011 to 15% in 2016. Ongoing efforts are necessary to further build on these gains.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Scotland	31293782	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293782	Diarrhea
World journal of hepatology	Efficacy of long-term rifaximin treatment for hepatic encephalopathy in the Japanese.	Rifaximin therapy improves overt HE. The long-term use of rifaximin in the Japanese is effective and safe.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31293721	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293721	Diarrhea
Frontiers in pharmacology	Efficacy and Safety of Bcl-2 Inhibitor Venetoclax in Hematological Malignancy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Clinical Trials.	None	2019	eng	Systematic Review	Switzerland	31293422	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293422	Diarrhea
Chinese journal of integrative medicine	Post-marketing Re-evaluation of Tongxiening Granules () in Treatment of Diarrhea-Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome: A Multi-center, Randomized, Double-Blind, Double-Dummy and Positive Control Trial.	Tongxiening Granules could relieve the symptoms of patients with IBS-D and the treatment effect was comparable to pinaverium bromide. (No. ChiCTR-IPR-15006415).	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31292845	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292845	Diarrhea
Nihon Shokakibyo Gakkai zasshi = The Japanese journal of gastro-enterology	[A case of rectal villous adenoma with electrolyte depletion syndrome treated with surgical resection].	A 65-year-old man was previously admitted to our university hospital thrice in the last 2 years because of acute kidney failure. This time he was admitted because of frequent diarrhea, anorexia, exacerbation of renal function, and hyponatremia. Rectal wall thickening was detected on computed tomography. Subsequently, a rectal polyp with mucous secretion was found on colonoscopy, which was further diagnosed as a subcutaneous villous adenoma on biopsy. Thus, electrolyte depletion syndrome associated with the rectal polyp was thought to be the cause of his symptoms. Finally, the patient underwent abdominoperineal resection of the rectum. Histopathologically, the rectal lesion was diagnosed as a villous/tubularadenoma without malignancy, and this is such a rare case to be reported.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31292319	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292319	Diarrhea
Journal of virology	LAP	Transforming Growth Factor β (TGFβ) has been shown to play a role in immunity towards different pathogens 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31292251	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292251	Diarrhea
Journal of virology	Determination of critical requirements for NS2-3-independent virion formation of classical swine fever virus.	For members of the 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31292243	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292243	Diarrhea
PloS one	Effectiveness of zinc supplementation on diarrhea and average daily gain in pre-weaned dairy calves: A double-blind, block-randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial.	The objective of this clinical trial was to evaluate the effectiveness of zinc supplementation on diarrhea and average daily weight gain (ADG) in pre-weaned dairy calves. A total of 1,482 healthy Holstein heifer and bull calves from a large California dairy were enrolled at 24 to 48 hours of age until hutch exit at approximately 90 days of age. Calves were block-randomized by time to one of three treatments: 1) placebo, 2) zinc methionine (ZM), or 3) zinc sulfate (ZS) administered in milk once daily for 14 days. Serum total protein at enrollment and body weight at birth, treatment end, and hutch exit were measured. Fecal consistency was assessed daily for 28 days post-enrollment. For a random sample of 127 calves, serum zinc concentrations before and after treatment and a fecal antigen ELISA at diarrhea start and resolution for Escherichia coli K99, rotavirus, coronavirus, and Cryptosporidium parvum were performed. Linear regression showed that ZM-treated bull calves had 22 g increased ADG compared to placebo-treated bulls (P = 0.042). ZM-treated heifers had 9 g decreased ADG compared to placebo-treated heifers (P = 0.037), after adjusting for average birth weight. Sex-stratified models showed that high birth weight heifers treated with ZM gained more than placebo-treated heifers of the same birth weight, which suggests a dose-response effect rather than a true sex-specific effect of ZM on ADG. Cox regression showed that ZM and ZS-treated calves had a 14.7% (P = 0.015) and 13.9% (P = 0.022) reduced hazard of diarrhea, respectively, compared to placebo-treated calves. Calves supplemented for at least the first five days of diarrhea with ZM and ZS had a 21.4% (P = 0.027) and 13.0% (P = 0.040) increased hazard of cure from diarrhea, respectively, compared to placebo-treated calves. Logistic regression showed that the odds of microbiological cure at diarrhea resolution for rotavirus, C. parvum, or any single fecal pathogen was not different between treatment groups. Zinc supplementation delayed diarrhea and expedited diarrhea recovery in pre-weaned calves. Additionally, zinc improved weight gain differentially in bulls compared to heifers, indicating a research need for sex-specific dosing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291305	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291305	Diarrhea
JAMA dermatology	Association of Hidradenitis Suppurativa With Inflammatory Bowel Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.	The evidence to date supports an association of HS with IBD. These results suggest that consultation with gastroenterologists should be sought when patients with HS present with recurrent abdominal pain, chronic diarrhea, bloody stool, and body weight loss.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290938	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290938	Diarrhea
Pediatric emergency care	Prodromal Phase of Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome Related to Shiga Toxin-Producing Escherichia coli: The Wasted Time.	During the diarrheal phase, 57% of patients consulted; three-quarters of them consulted to the pediatric emergency department. Shiga toxin-producing E. coli detection was poor, antibiotic use remained high, and anticipatory volume expansion was underused. These findings outline the critical need to improve the early management of STEC-HUS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290797	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290797	Diarrhea
Microorganisms	Dynamic Gene Network Analysis of Caco-2 Cell Response to Shiga Toxin-Producing 	Shiga toxin-producing 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31288487	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288487	Diarrhea
Materials (Basel, Switzerland)	Graphene Quantum Dots as Nanozymes for Electrochemical Sensing of 	The genus 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31288382	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288382	Diarrhea
Journal of virological methods	Establishment and application of a multiplex RT-PCR to differentiate wild-type and vaccine strains of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus.	Due to outbreaks of porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED) and the wide use of attenuated live vaccine, both wild-type and vaccine strains (CV777) are believed to circulate in Chinese pig farms. Thus, identification of different PEDV strains is of epidemiological importance. In this study, a multiplex RT-PCR method was established based on the sequence features of spike (S) gene and ORF3 gene of PEDVs. The method could identify PEDV variant strains, classical wild-type strains and classical vaccine strains. The limit of detection of the RT-PCR was 1.51 × 104 copies/uL for plasmids and 1 × 101.7 TCID50/100 u L for PEDV, respectively. There were no cross-detections among three different PEDVs and no false detections among six swine pathogens. This assay was used to test 940 samples from China of which 303 samples were PEDV positive, and 289, 5, 10 were positive for variant, classical wild, classical vaccine, respectively. One sample was positive for both variant and classical vaccine PEDV. The variant PEDVs could be detected in samples from 13 provinces, while classical PEDVs were detected from nine provinces, supporting the prevalence of variant PEDV in China. In summary, this multiplex RT-PCR was a useful tool for the clinical detection and epidemiological survey of PEDV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31288038	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288038	Diarrhea
BMC veterinary research	Protective effect of chicken egg yolk immunoglobulins (IgY) against enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli K88 adhesion in weaned piglets.	Outcome of the study demonstrated that IgY against the fimbrial antigen K88 was able to significantly inhibit the growth of E. coli K88, block the binding of E. coli to small intestinal mucus, and protect piglets from E. coli-induced diarrhea. These results indicate that passive immunization with IgY may be useful to prevent bacterial colonization and to control enteric diseases due to E. coli infection. The study has great clinical implication to provide alternative therapy to antibiotics in E coli induced diarrhea.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31286936	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286936	Diarrhea
Supportive care in cancer : official journal of the Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer	Systematic review of agents for the management of cancer treatment-related gastrointestinal mucositis and clinical practice guidelines.	Of the agents studied for the prevention and treatment of GIM, the evidence continues to support use of probiotics containing Lactobacillus spp. for prevention of chemoradiotherapy and radiotherapy-induced diarrhea in patients with pelvic malignancy, and hyperbaric oxygen therapy to treat radiation-induced proctitis. Additional well-designed research is encouraged to enable a decision regarding palifermin, glutamine, sodium butyrate, and dietary interventions, for the prevention or treatment of GIM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31286233	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286233	Diarrhea
Toxicology reports	Pulmonary thrombosis in acute organophosphate poisoning-Case report and literature overview of prothrombotic preconditioning in organophosphate toxicity.	Acute organophosphate poisoning treated with atropine showed a potential for inducing prothrombotic coagulation abnormalities, presented with PT. This life-threatening complication may additionally contribute to prolonged morbidity and mortality in OP poisonings, especially in patients with medical history of comorbidites.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Ireland	31285996	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285996	Diarrhea
Journal of public health in Africa	Assessment of the relationship between water insecurity, hygiene practices, and incidence of diarrhea among children from rural households of the Menoua Division, West Cameroon.	The objectives of a cross-sectional, semi-quantitative study were to: i) assess the prevalence of water insecurity and its association with water access-related behaviors such as time, distance, and sources of water; ii) identify major themes of concern raised in reference to anxiety, water quality/quantity, and perceived health risk domains of water insecurity, and; iii) examine the relationship between water insecurity, hygiene practices, and diarrheal incidence among children in rural areas of the Menoua Division in the Western Region of Cameroon In-person interviews were conducted with 18 years or older women living with at least one child between 2 and 5 years old (n=134). Participants spent on average 17±12 minutes walking to a drinking water source. Prevalence of water insecurity was 58%, and it was associated with a lower hygiene score among caretakers, 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31285814	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285814	Diarrhea
Experimental & molecular medicine	Antitumorigenic and antiangiogenic efficacy of apatinib in liver cancer evaluated by multimodality molecular imaging.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Sorafenib is the standard first-line treatment for advanced HCC, but its efficacy is limited. Apatinib is a small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has shown promising antitumor effects in gastric and non-small cell lung cancers in clinical trials, but there have been only a few studies reporting its anti-HCC effects in vitro and in HCC xenograft models. Hence, our present study systemically investigated and compared the antitumorigenic and antiangiogenic efficacy of apatinib and sorafenib in HCC in vitro and in vivo using multimodality molecular imaging, including bioluminescence imaging (BLI), bioluminescence tomography (BLT), fluorescence molecular imaging (FMI), and computed tomography angiography (CTA). Moreover, the safety and side effects of the two drugs were systemically evaluated. We found that apatinib showed a comparable therapeutic efficacy to sorafenib for the inhibition of HCC. The drug safety evaluation revealed that both of these drugs caused hypertension and mild liver and kidney damage. Sorafenib caused diarrhea, rash, and weight loss in mice, but these effects were not observed in mice treated with apatinib. In conclusion, apatinib has similar antitumorigenic and antiangiogenic efficacy as sorafenib in HCC with less toxicity. These findings may provide preclinical evidence supporting the potential application of apatinib for the treatment of HCC patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31285418	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285418	Diarrhea
Theriogenology	Effective biosecurity to protect North American studs and clients from emerging infectious disease.	Protecting boar studs and their clients from emerging infectious disease first involves effective biosecurity measures to keep a disease out that was not present, and second, early identification and ceasing semen distribution prior to disseminating infectious disease. Experiences in the field can best guide us as to what has been effective. Circumstances in North America in the period of 1999-2004 resulted in numerous PRRS virus (Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome) negative boar studs becoming infected and disseminating virus to sow farms. Earlier detection methods were needed, and withholding of semen pending negative test results became standard. To accomplish this, diagnostic labs complied with industry requests for same day testing. At the same time, research efforts helped clarify the major routes of PRRS virus introduction into the farms. The risk of fomites and aerosol spread became viewed as major risks. Addressing issues with people and supply entry alone did not eliminate new virus entry. The implementation of air filtration during 2005-2008 had a major impact on the rate of new virus introductions into boar studs after other measures alone were unsuccessful. Risks exposed with the introduction of PED virus (Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea) into North America further highlighted other risk factors such as feed ingredients, trailer sanitation, and the presence of clear physical barriers. The successful adaptation of testing procedures, combined with biosecurity procedures including air filtration, has made the incidence of infectious disease introduction extremely rare in North American boar studs over the last decade. While survivability of infectious disease agents can vary in different materials or in the air, successful protocols should be applied and adjusted as needed to accommodate new information or risks. Cleary defined physical barriers for people and animal entry and exit, sanitization and/or down time on incoming supplies, risk mitigation and testing of feed ingredients, and filtration have been keys to changing the incidence of emerging infectious disease introduction into boar studs.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31285050	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285050	Diarrhea
Travel medicine and infectious disease	Epidemiological and etiological features of travel-related febrile illnesses in hospitalized Russian children and adults: A single-centre, retrospective analysis in Moscow.	children were mainly hospitalized during summer. Among hospitalized children, almost half was under 3 years old. In children acute respiratory infection and intestinal infections predominated, while in adults, vector-borne diseases were more frequently observed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31284068	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284068	Diarrhea
Clinical microbiology and infection : the official publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases	Profiling infectious diseases in Turkey after the influx of 3.5 million Syrian refugees.	Since the influx of Syrian refugees, there is an increase in the cases of leishmaniasis and measles. No significant increase was detected in tuberculosis, other vectorborn infections, healthcare associated or sexually transmitted infections. The Syrian refugees can be considered as a vulnerable group in Turkey due to their living and working conditions. Based on available data and our detailed analysis, the numbers are showing a stable situation regarding infectious diseases.	2019	eng	Review	England	31284037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284037	Diarrhea
JCO clinical cancer informatics	Living With Neuroendocrine Tumors: Assessment of Quality of Life Through a Mobile Application.	Patients with NET experience a large symptom burden that varies daily. A decrease in physical symptoms on QoL surveys suggests an effect from daily app-based monitoring or journaling, which may reduce recall bias and benefit the patient's experience of symptoms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31283354	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283354	Diarrhea
JAMA neurology	Safety and Efficacy of Edonerpic Maleate for Patients With Mild to Moderate Alzheimer Disease: A Phase 2 Randomized Clinical Trial.	ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT02079909.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282954	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282954	Diarrhea
Foodborne pathogens and disease	Characterization of an Unusual Foodborne Illness Including an Outbreak and Sporadic Illness Caused by Three Bacterial Pathogens Via a Takeaway Service.	Takeaway food services are an emerging business in China and have a potential impact on food safety. An unusual foodborne illness associated with takeaway food delivered through a logistics company on August 27, 2018 is reported. Epidemiological investigations showed that 28 patients from 2 companies were diagnosed with gastroenteritis symptoms. The major symptoms included nausea (24, 85.71%), vomiting (24, 85.71%), diarrhea (22, 78.57%), and abdominal pain (22, 78.75%). Laboratory investigations showed that six 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282746	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282746	Diarrhea
Veterinary microbiology	Upregulation of CD4	Oral immunization is a commonly employed route for inducing local immunity. However, the application of oral immunization is limited by the short-term persistence of immunity, particularly for inactivated viruses. The ultimate goal for mucosal vaccination is to stimulate protective immunological memory. In the intestine, long-term persistence of immunity is related to CD4	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31282365	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282365	Diarrhea
Nutrition in clinical practice : official publication of the American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition	Parental Perspectives on Blenderized Tube Feeds for Children Requiring Supplemental Nutrition.	Families continue to choose BTFs and report a range of benefits, accessing much of their information online. Health professionals should recognize this and openly provide support, guidance, and monitoring as appropriate.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282089	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282089	Diarrhea
Current gastroenterology reports	Colonic and Anorectal Manifestations of Systemic Sclerosis.	The exact pathophysiology of systemic sclerosis is unclear and likely multifactorial. The role of the microbiome on gastrointestinal manifestations has led to a better understanding of potential pathogenic gut flora. Carbohydrate malabsorption is common. Evaluation using fecal calprotectin and high-resolution anorectal manometry may broaden our understanding of the etiologies of diarrhea and fecal incontinence and help with early recognition of pathology. Prucalopride, a high-affinity 5HT	2019	eng	Review	United States	31281951	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281951	Diarrhea
Open forum infectious diseases	Impact of Levofloxacin for the Prophylaxis of Bloodstream Infection on the Gut Microbiome in Patients With Hematologic Malignancy.	The impact of antibiotics on the gut microbiome varies by class, and levofloxacin may disrupt the gut microbiome less than BSBLs in this patient population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31281857	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281857	Diarrhea
Frontiers in public health	Genomic Delineation of Zoonotic Origins of 	None	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31281807	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281807	Diarrhea
Cureus	Autoimmune Hepatitis Refractory to Treatment Due to Underlying Grave's Disease.	A 24-year-old Hispanic woman presented to our facility with a two-week history of abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, jaundice, and scleral icterus. Initial laboratory workup revealed elevated transaminases, direct hyperbilirubinemia, and positive anti-smooth muscle antibody. Liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis and our patient was started on oral prednisone therapy. Her liver enzymes initially began to normalize but then spontaneously started up-trending. She was subsequently readmitted to the hospital for further management, at which time she also complained of palpitations, heat intolerance, and sweating. Laboratory workup revealed hyperthyroidism secondary to Grave's disease. Our patient was not a candidate for methimazole or propylthiouracil treatment due to her hepatic dysfunction, so she was started on hydrocortisone due to its secondary effect of decreased conversion of thyroxine to triiodothyronine. She achieved biochemical remission of her autoimmune hepatitis on this regimen and was transitioned back to oral prednisone therapy. Her liver enzymes normalized once she underwent radioactive iodine ablation of her thyroid. This clinical course suggests that autoimmune hepatitis with concurrent Grave's disease may be refractory to treatment until the underlying hyperthyroid state is corrected.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31281763	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281763	Diarrhea
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	Anti-inflammatory effects of ethanol extract from the leaves and shoots of 	Cedrela odorata L. is a native plant of the Amazon region. The bark is used in folk remedies for the treatment of diarrhea, vomiting, fever and inflammation. Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic, relapsing inflammatory skin disease accompanied by itching. It is a complex disease involving environmental factors and genetic factors. In the present study, the anti-inflammatory and anti-allergic effects of C. odorata L. methanol extract (COEE) on tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and interferon (IFN)-γ-stimulated HaCaT keratinocyte cells were investigated. ELISA and RT-PCR analysis revealed that the extract had anti-inflammatory effects, and reduced the interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 levels of the HaCaT cells. In addition, COEE exhibited anti-allergic effects, comprising a reduction in the thymus and activation-regulated chemokine and macrophage-derived chemokine levels. In addition, pathway analysis and comparison with Bay11-7082 indicated that these effects are due to the inhibition of nuclear factor (NF)-κB in TNF-α/IFN-γ-induced HaCaT cells. Therefore, the results of the present study suggest that COEE has anti-inflammatory and anti-allergic properties in TNF-α and IFN-γ-stimulated HaCaT cells, which are associated with the inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines via the NF-κB pathway.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31281457	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281457	Diarrhea
Journal of infection and public health	An outbreak due to a norovirus GII.Pe-GII.4 Sydney_2012 recombinant in neonatal and pediatric intensive care units.	The outbreak was due to the GII.Pe-GII.4 Sydney_2012 variant that occurred in the same year of its first description in the world.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31281104	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281104	Diarrhea
Journal of cancer research and clinical oncology	A randomized phase II, open-label and multicenter study of combination regimens of bortezomib at two doses by subcutaneous injection for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients.	The studied high-dose VCD as induction regimen had an improved CR rate, especially in patients < 65 or with R-ISS stage III, and is feasible for young and high-risk patients. Trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02086942.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31280348	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280348	Diarrhea
The Journal of surgical research	Rapid Detection of Clostridium difficile Toxins in Stool by Raman Spectroscopy.	Using RS, we successfully detected TcdA and TcdB in stool samples albeit with moderate-to-high sensitivity and low-to-moderate specificity. Sensitivity and specificity could be further increased with the implementation of deep learning methods, which require large sample sizes. In terms of sensitivity, RS performs better than toxin enzyme immunoassay and has the potential to rapidly detect C difficile toxins in stool at clinically relevant concentrations and thereby help mitigate overdiagnosis of CDI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279995	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279995	Diarrhea
European journal of medical genetics	Mutation spectrum of MMACHC in Chinese pediatric patients with cobalamin C disease: A case series and literature review.	Cobalamin (cbl) C disease is a rare autosomal recessive inheritance disease, which is the most common cobalamin metabolic disorder. Its clinical phenotype involves multiple systems with varying degrees of severity, where in mild cases can be asymptomatic for many years, whereas severe cases may cause death during the neonatal period. The disease is caused by mutations in the MMACHC gene located on chromosome 1p34.1 that contains 5 exons; among which, exons 1-4 have an 849 bp coding sequence that encodes a protein containing 282 amino acids. Through clinical physical examination and laboratory tests, especially blood and urine screening, we found 28 cblC pediatric patients with clinical manifestations, such as mental retardation, motor development delay, epilepsy, metabolic acidosis, vomiting and diarrhea. By Sanger sequencing, we found homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations of MMACHC in 27 of the patients, and single heterozygous mutation of MMACHC in one of them. The c.609G > A, c.658-660delAAG, c.80A > G and c.482G > A mutations accounted for 43.64% (24/55), 10.91% (6/55), 9.09% (5/55) and 7.27% (4/55) of all the mutations, respectively. This spectrum finding is basically consistent with the previously reported data in Chinese patients. The most common c.609G > A mutation may likely lead to early-onset cblC disease. In previous literature involving a large sample of Caucasian cblC cases, the mutation spectrum of MMACHC gene is almost completely different from that of the Chinese population. The most common mutations in the Caucasian population were c.271dupA, c.394C > T and c.331C > T, which account for 48.05% (542/1128), 13.65% (154/1128) and 7.36% (83/1128) of all the mutant alleles, respectively. The c.271dupA mutation and c.331C > T mutation were mainly associated with early-onset cblC in children less than 1 year old, whilst the c.394C > T mutation was mainly associated with late-onset cblC patients characterised by isolated acute nervous system abnormalities. We also analysed the cause behind the different mutation spectrum of MMACHC gene between the Chinese and Caucasian populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279840	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279840	Diarrhea
Clinical genitourinary cancer	The Alternative 2/1 Schedule of Sunitinib is Superior to the Traditional 4/2 Schedule in Patients With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma: A Meta-analysis.	Alternate sunitinib schedules attracted the interest of oncologists recently owing to their superior safety profile. This meta-analysis compared the tolerability and efficacy of a new alternative dosing schedule (2 weeks on/1 week off) of sunitinib with the traditional 4/2 schedule in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). Studies were retrieved from Medline, Cochrane Central, Scopus, Embase, and Web of Science databases. Data were extracted and pooled as hazard ratio (HR: survival data) or odds ratio (OR: dichotomous data) using Comprehensive Meta-analysis software. Based on data of 1173 patients, the progression-free survival (HR, 0.52; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.39-0.95; P < .0001), overall survival (HR, 0.6; 95% CI, 0.43-0.85; P < .0001), and stable disease rates (OR, 0.38; 95% CI, 0.19-0.76; P = .006) were significantly improved on the alternative 2/1 schedule, compared with the traditional 4/2 schedule. However, the complete response (OR, 1.32; 95% CI, 0.34-5.22; P = .69) and partial response (OR, 1.34; 95% CI, 0.44-4.14; P = .61) rates were comparable between the 2 regimens. The tolerability of the alternative 2/1 schedule was superior to the traditional one as investigated adverse events like fatigue (OR, 2.91; 95% CI, 1.89-4.46; P < .0001), hypertension (OR, 2.08; 95% CI, 1.56-2.75; P < .0001), and diarrhea (OR, 2.18; 95% CI, 1.19-3.98; P = .012) were significantly less common. In conclusion, the alternative 2/1 sunitinib schedule provides improved tolerability and survival in patients with mRCC. Large randomized trials with long follow-up periods are required to validate and confirm these findings.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31279483	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279483	Diarrhea
Chest	A 48-Year-Old Man With Excessive Drooling and Descending Paralysis Requiring Mechanical Ventilation.	A 48-year-old man presented with a chief report of worsening dysphagia for 5 days. Initially, he had difficulty swallowing solids, but it has progressed to difficulty with liquids. There was associated sialorrhea, hypophonia, slurring of speech, hoarseness of voice, cough, and prominent upper extremity weakness. Of note, 2 weeks ago, the patient had an upper respiratory tract infection (including otitis media) that was treated with amoxicillin-clavulanate. His wife and son were also recently sick with an upper respiratory tract infection. His medical history included hypertension managed with amlodipine; he denied any history of TB, recent travel, or canned food ingestion. He denied fevers, stridor, dyspnea, rash, odynophagia, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279384	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279384	Diarrhea
International journal of antimicrobial agents	Off-label use of Ceftaroline Fosamil: a systematic review.	Ceftaroline fosamil is a fifth-generation cephalosporin and the unique with anti-MRSA activity. It has been approved by EMA and FDA for the treatment of adults and children with community-acquired bacterial pneumonia (CABP) and acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections (ABSSI) However, given its broad spectrum of activity, safety and tolerability profile it is frequently used off-label. The aim of this systematic review is to summarize evidence regarding off-label use of ceftaroline, with regard to safety and efficacy. We performed the review according to PRISMA guidelines, we searched the MEDLINE, EMBASE and CENTRAL databases (2010-2018) using as main term ceftaroline fosamil and its synonyms in combination with names of infectious diseases of interest. Overall, 21 studies were included for total of 1901 patients: the most common off-label indications for ceftaroline use were bacteremia (n=595), endocarditis (n=171), osteoarticular infections (n=368), hospital acquired pneumonia (n=115) and meningitis (n=23). The most common reason for off-label use were persistent or recurrent infection after standard treatment or non-susceptibility to vancomycin and daptomycin. Clinical success was evaluated in 933 patients, of these 724 (77%) reached this positive outcome; incidence of adverse events was reported in 11 studies, in 83 (9%) cases there were adverse events (AEs) related to the use of ceftaroline; most common reported AEs were nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, rash and neutropenia. Our results show that ceftaroline may be used in other clinical settings than those currently approved. However, the use of ceftaroline in these contexts deserves further investigation.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31279152	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279152	Diarrhea
Annals of allergy, asthma & immunology : official publication of the American College of Allergy, Asthma, & Immunology	Idiopathic Post-Prandial Diarrhea Responsive to Anti-histamines.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279076	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279076	Diarrhea
Letters in applied microbiology	A heterologous "prime-boost" anti-PEDV immunization for pregnant sows protects neonatal piglets through lactogenic immunity against PEDV.	Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) causes severe diarrhea in neonatal suckling piglets with a high mortality. Maternal vaccines that can induce lactogenic immunity to protect suckling piglets via colostrums and milk are pivotal for the prevention and control of PEDV infection in neonatal suckling piglets. In this study, a group of pregnant sows were first orally immunized with coated PEDV-loaded microspheres and boosted with killed PEDV vaccines (heterologous prime-boost). It has been detected that the levels of PEDV-specific antibodies (IgG and IgA) in their sera and milks were higher than other negative groups (p < 0.001 or p < 0.05). Furthermore, it has been proved by the neutralization assay that the induced antibodies could significantly inhibit virus infection as compared to other negative groups (p < 0.01 or p < 0.05). Importantly, after PEDV challenge, more than 90% of the suckling piglets delivered by the sows in the heterologous prime-boost group were completely protected. Overall, the results show that "heterologous prime-boost" form is an efficient and effective way to provide protection for suckling piglets against PEDV through lactogenic immunity. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31278766	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278766	Diarrhea
Chinese journal of integrative medicine	Relation of Blood Arsenic Concentration with Effect and Safety of Arsenic-Containing Qinghuang Powder () in Patients with Myelodysplastic Syndrome.	QHP was effective and safe in the treatment of patients with MDS and the effect was associated with BACs of patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31278627	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278627	Diarrhea
Seminars in immunopathology	Resolution of ulcerative colitis.	Ulcerative colitis designates an idiopathic chronic inflammatory bowel disease leading to bloody diarrhea and inflammatory alterations mostly restricted to the large intestine. Many studies continue to unravel important aspects of its etiopathogenesis, and recent pharmaceutical developments broaden the arsenal of therapeutic opportunity. In this review, we delve into the cellular and molecular determinants of successful resolution of ulcerative colitis, describing novel insights in each of the phases of mucosal healing starting from damaging insults to the mucosa, epithelial restitution, and its adaption to inflammation as well as lymphocyte-driven maintenance and resolution of chronic inflammation. Additionally, molecular switches from inflammation to resolution are explored, paving the way for future avenues to resolve ulcerative colitis.	2019	eng	Review	Germany	31278430	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278430	Diarrhea
Indian pediatrics	Single-dose Intravenous Ondansetron in Children with Gastroenteritis: A Randomized Controlled Trial.	In hospitalized children having gastro-enteritis associated with emesis, ondansetron is effective in the cessation of episodes of vomiting and in lowering the rates of IV rehydration, without reducing the duration of diarrhea and hospital stay.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31278225	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278225	Diarrhea
BMC veterinary research	Chronic intramammary infection by Listeria monocytogenes in a clinically healthy goat - a case report.	This study demonstrates that L. monocytogenes can establish a chronic, subclinical IMI in goats with high numbers of bacteria shed in milk, representing a source of contamination for the herd and its dairy products. This underscores the importance of frequently monitoring all dairy herds that sell directly milk and/or fresh cheese and indicates that a chronic L. monocytogenes IMI should also be considered as source of bacteria when bulk tank milk contamination is detected in a dairy goat farm.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31277642	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277642	Diarrhea
BMC nephrology	Norovirus: a novel etiologic agent in hemolytic uremic syndrome in an infant.	To our knowledge this is the first case of Norovirus associated HUS in an infant. Given the ubiquity of this virus as a major cause of diarrhea, together with the increased availability of Multiplex Qualitative PCR in reference laboratories, it is quite possible that we shall be seeing more such cases in the future.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31277594	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277594	Diarrhea
The International journal of artificial organs	Successful application of CytoSorb	This is the successful clinical report of an immunocompromised teenager with collapsing nephropathy, sepsis, and multi-organ dysfunction syndrome treated with a combination of renal replacement therapy and CytoSorb	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31277560	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277560	Diarrhea
Medicine	A comprehensive evaluation of clinical efficacy and safety of celecoxib in combination with chemotherapy in metastatic or postoperative recurrent gastric cancer patients: A preliminary, three-center, clinical trial study.	Celecoxib combined with chemotherapy offers more clinical benefits for COX-2 positive advanced gastric cancer patients.	2019	eng	Randomized Controlled Trial	United States	31277138	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277138	Diarrhea
Medicine	Clinical efficacy of oral immunoglobulin Y in infant rotavirus enteritis: Systematic review and meta-analysis.	Immunoglobulin Y is effective in the treatment of infantile rotavirus enteritis. Oral immunoglobulin Y can be widely used in the treatment of rotavirus enteritis in clinic.	2019	eng	Systematic Review	United States	31277110	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277110	Diarrhea
Medicine	Efficacy of different probiotic protocols in irritable bowel syndrome: A network meta-analysis.	Probiotics is a safety choice to improve the overall symptoms for IBS patient. The protocols with suitable dose combined of Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium can have prepotent effects compared with single species or over-dosage protocols. Network meta-analysis shows that DUO may be the first recommendation for diarrhea-type IBS. In the remaining 4 regimes of this study, Pro has a high rank for undifferentiated-type IBS.	2019	eng	Systematic Review	United States	31277101	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277101	Diarrhea
European journal of medical genetics	Congenital Sodium Diarrhea by mutation of the SLC9A3 gene.	Congenital Sodium Diarrhea (CSD) due to SLC9A3 mutation is a rare cause of neonatal diarrhea explained by dysfunction of the Na+/H+ antiporter 3 in intestine. To date only 10 patients have been described. We report a male patient with typical antenatal symptoms (polyhydramnios and intestinal dilation) and neonatal diarrhea with fecal sodium and bicarbonates loss. Next generation sequencing revealed a missense homozygous mutation in exon 6 of the SLC9A3 gene (NM_004174.3:c.1039G > A, NP_004165.2:p.Glu347Lys). Oral electrolytes supplements (Sodium and Bicarbonates) allowed a normal growth to the child currently aged twenty months. CSD symptomatology usually begins during third trimester of pregnancy. Antenatal signs are polyhydramnios and diffuse intestinal dilation. Main differential diagnoses are intestinal obstruction and Congenital Chloride Diarrhea. Diarrhea begins from the first days of life and its severity is variable. Based on the report and on the literature we suggest that non syndromic CSD can be detected during third trimester of pregnancy. With adequate electrolytes supplementation good evolution is possible.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31276831	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276831	Diarrhea
Journal of medical virology	Investigation of a large waterborne acute gastroenteritis outbreak caused by group B rotavirus in Maharashtra state, India.	An acute gastroenteritis outbreak at Devli Karad village, Maharashtra, India with an attack rate of 22.6% affected mainly adolescent and adult population. The viral investigations conducted on fecal specimens of patients hospitalized indicated the presence of rotavirus B (RVB) using RNA polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. The samples collected from the source of drinking water also showed the presence of the only RVB. Absence of other viral agents and identification of RVB of genotype G2 as the etiological agent of the acute gastroenteritis outbreak highlights, the necessity of monitoring RVB, the viral agent known for its large outbreak potential.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31276221	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276221	Diarrhea
JGH open : an open access journal of gastroenterology and hepatology	Fecograph: A graphical representation of daily stool forms to subtype irritable bowel syndrome in office practice.	The fecograph is a reliable and easy-to-use tool to subtype patients with IBS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31276040	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276040	Diarrhea
Frontiers in veterinary science	A Randomized Double Blinded Placebo-Controlled Clinical Trial of a Probiotic or Metronidazole for Acute Canine Diarrhea.	Acute diarrhea is a common, often self-limiting, cause of presentation for veterinary care, yet there is a paucity of data on frequently-prescribed treatments. The purpose of this randomized, double blinded placebo-controlled clinical trial was to compare two anecdotally-recommended treatments: a probiotic combination and metronidazole. Sixty dogs without concurrent comorbidities were randomized into three treatment groups. The time to resolution of diarrheal signs was evaluated using owner surveys and fecal scoring charts. Dogs presenting with acute diarrhea achieved acceptable fecal consistency after 3.5 ± 2.2 days when receiving probiotic, 4.6 ± 2.4 days with oral metronidazole, and 4.8 ± 2.9 days with placebo; statistically significant differences were not identified between treatment groups (	2019	eng	Case Reports	Switzerland	31275948	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275948	Diarrhea
Case reports in gastrointestinal medicine	Zollinger Ellison Syndrome in a Patient with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1: A Classic Presentation.	Zollinger Ellison Syndrome (ZES) is characterized by a wide spectrum of conditions including severe gastroesophageal reflux disease, peptic ulcer disease, watery diarrhea, and weight loss. We present a case of a 60-year-old woman being evaluated for severe dyspepsia, vomiting, and chronic diarrhea, who was diagnosed to have ZES associated with a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, in the setting of multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) type 1. Although cases of ZES have been reported previously, we believe that our case is a classic presentation of ZES diagnosed on the basis of typical radiologic, endoscopic, and endosonographic features.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31275670	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275670	Diarrhea
Journal of surgical case reports	Pancreatic neuroendocrine microadenomatosis presenting as a functional VIPoma.	Pancreatic microadenomas are benign tumors of neuroendocrine origin less than 5 mm in size. Whereas most microadenomas are non-functional; a few rare functional pancreatic microadenomas have been described in the setting of multiple endocrine neoplasia type one (MEN-1). In this report, we describe a unique case of multiple functional microadenomas of the pancreatic head in a patient who presented with persistent secretory diarrhea, refractory hypokalemia, metabolic acidosis and elevated plasma vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) levels. Following extensive serologic, radiographic and endoscopic work up, our patient underwent open pancreaticoduodenectomy with subsequent resolution of diarrheal symptoms and electrolyte abnormalities on postoperative follow up.	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31275551	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275551	Diarrhea
International journal of pediatrics	Assessment of Poor Home Management Practice of Diarrhea and Associated Factors among Caregivers of Under-Five Years Children in Urban and Rural Residents of Doba Woreda, Ethiopia: Comparative Cross-Sectional Study.	Poor home management practice of diarrhea was high in both urban and rural residents. It was higher in rural compared to urban residents. Poor practice was associated with knowledge level, age of the caregivers, sex of the index child, and accessibility of zinc. Health education and community mobilization on home management of diarrhea are important to increase awareness and improve practice level.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Egypt	31275402	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275402	Diarrhea
Frontiers in microbiology	Alleviation of Intestinal Inflammation by Oral Supplementation With 2-Fucosyllactose in Mice.	Milk oligosaccharides exert a prebiotic action that contributes to the development of the infant gut microbiota during lactation. Given that milk oligosaccharides remain intact after passage through stomach and small intestine, they can potentially influence the composition of the gut microbiota when ingested as dietary supplements after weaning. To address the regulatory effects of specific oligosaccharides in colitis linked to the microbiota composition, we have supplemented interleukin-10 null (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31275292	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275292	Diarrhea
Clinics in colon and rectal surgery	Management of Complex Anorectal and Perianal Crohn's Disease.	Perianal symptoms occur in up to 50% of patients with Crohn's disease in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, and in 5% of patients it is the first manifestation of the disease. The perianal area is often under stress in patients with Crohn's disease, because of the diarrhea, and the fecal urgency, frequency, and incontinence caused by proximal disease. Symptomatic perianal disease can therefore be due to the effects of the stress on an otherwise normal anus, or the result of Crohn's disease in the low rectum and/or perianal tissues themselves. This key distinction should drive the investigation and management of anal and perianal symptoms in patients with Crohn's disease. In this review, the evaluation and management of the various manifestations of Crohn's disease in the perineum and perianal tissues will be described.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31275071	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275071	Diarrhea
Clinical nuclear medicine	Ileal Neuroendocrine Tumor With Bilateral Breast and Ovarian Metastases: Findings on 68Ga-DOTANOC PET/CT Scan.	Metastasis to the breast is a rare occurrence and constitutes less than 2% of all breast tumors. Similarly, ovarian metastases from neuroendocrine tumors are also uncommon, and if the adnexal masses are bilateral, then the chances of it being metastatic rather than being primary range from 88% to 94%. We present a case of 61-year-old woman who in the course of workup for abdominal pain and diarrhea was eventually diagnosed as ileal neuroendocrine tumor with breast, ovarian, and lymph nodal metastases on Ga-DOTANOC PET/CT scan.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31274557	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274557	Diarrhea
Nanomedicine (London, England)	Delivery of antisense peptide nucleic acid by gold nanoparticles for the inhibition of virus replication.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31274375	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274375	Diarrhea
Veterinaria italiana	Eimeria spp. in broiler rabbit: seasonal prevalence in the backyard farms of the State of Mexico.	The cuniculture has become an important source of animal protein in many countries. The coccidiosis is the most common parasitic disease of the rabbits and is responsible for severe economic losses for breeders. Rabbit coccidiosis is caused by 11 species of the genus Eimeria, which vary considerably in terms of their morphology and pathogenicity. The aim of this study was to evaluate prevalence of Eimeria spp in backyard farms from Mexico during annual seasons. Cross-sectional sampling was performed in young rabbits (20 to 60 days of age) with diarrhea history, from three municipalities located in the south-east region from the State of Mexico. Flotation and Mc Master techniques were performed; oocysts were sporulated and measured for morphometric identification. The highest prevalence of Eimeria was found in autumn (75%) in Temamatla and winter (88%) in Amecameca, being the lower prevalence in spring (5%) in Temamatla. In terms of their pathogenicity  E. itestinalis was the more pathogen found in this study, being the annual prevalence of 11.3%. It is important to continue with studies of prevalence in other regions of the State of Mexico, in order to understand the pattern of presentation and distribution of the Eimeria spp infection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31274182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274182	Diarrhea
Journal of Zhejiang University. Science. B	Involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction in hepatotoxicity induced by Ageratina adenophora in mice.	Ageratina adenophora is a noxious plant and it is known to cause acute asthma, diarrhea, depilation, and even death in livestock (Zhu et al., 2007; Wang et al., 2017). A. adenophora grows near roadsides and degraded land worldwide (He et al., 2015b). In the areas where it grows, A. adenophora is an invasive species that inhibits the growth of local plants and causes poisoning in animals that come in contact with it (Nie et al., 2012). In China, these plants can be found in Yunnan, Sichuan, Guizhou, Chongqing, and other southwestern areas (He et al., 2015a) and they have become a dominant species in these local regions. It threatens the native biodiversity and ecosystem in the invaded areas and causes serious economic losses (Wang et al., 2017). It has been reported that A. adenophora can grow in the northeast direction at a speed of 20 km per year in China (Guo et al., 2009). Because of the damage caused by A. adenophora, it ranks among the earliest alien invasive plant species in China (Wang et al., 2017).	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31273967	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273967	Diarrhea
Animal science journal = Nihon chikusan Gakkaiho	The effects of dietary supplementation with porous zinc oxide on growth performance, intestinal microbiota, morphology, and permeability in weaned piglets.	The objective of this experiment was to evaluate the effects of dietary supplementation with porous zinc oxide (HiZox) on growth performance, intestinal microbiota, morphology, and permeability in weaned piglets. A total of 128 weaned piglets [(Landrace × Yorkshire) × Duroc] with an average body weight (BW) of (6.55 ± 0.25 kg; 21 d of age) were randomly assigned to four dietary treatments: (1) a corn-soybean basal diet; (2) basal diet + 3,000 mg/kg conventional ZnO; (3) basal diet + 200 mg/kg HiZox; (4) basal diet + 500 mg/kg HiZox. The experiments lasted for 28 days. Incremental HiZox in the diet increased ADG (linear p = 0.015; quadratic p = 0.043) and ADFI (linear p = 0.027; quadratic p = 0.038), and the diarrhea index decreased linearly and quadratically (p < 0.01) as HiZox supplemented increased. Furthermore, supplementation with HiZox increased the amounts of Lactobacillus spp. (p < 0.05) in the ileum and cecum in comparison with that of control treatment or 3,000 mg/kg ZnO treatment, while decreased the populations of Escherichia coli, Clostridium coccoides, and Clostridium. leptum subgroup (p < 0.05) in the ileum and cecum relative to those in control treatment. The addition of HiZox increased the villus height and villus-to-crypt ratio (VC) of duodenum, jejunum, and ileum (p < 0.05), while decreased the crypt depth of jejunum (p < 0.05) and tended to reduce the crypt depth of duodenum (p < 0.10) compared with the control treatment. Piglets fed with 500 mg/kg HiZox had lower serum D-lactate and diamine oxidase (DAO) than those fed with basal control diet or 3,000 mg/kg ZnO diet (p < 0.01). The results suggested that supplementation with HiZox modulated intestinal microbial composition and improved intestinal morphology, which may exert protective effects on the integrity of the mucosal barrier function of weaned piglets, was as efficacious as pharmaceutical doses of ZnO in enhancing growth performance, indicating that the HiZox may be a promising alternative to pharmaceutical doses of ZnO.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31273888	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273888	Diarrhea
Daru : journal of Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of Medical Sciences	Natural polyphenols for the prevention of irritable bowel syndrome: molecular mechanisms and targets; a comprehensive review.	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a well diagnosed disease, thoroughly attributed to series of symptoms criteria that embrace a broad range of abdominal complainers. Such criteria help to diagnosis the disease and can guide controlled clinical trials to seek new therapeutic agents. Accordingly, a verity of mechanisms and pathophysiological conditions including inflammation, oxidative stress, lipid peroxidation and different life styles are involved in IBS. Predictably, diverse therapeutic approaches are available and prescribed by clinicians due to major manifestations (i.e., diarrhea-predominance, constipation-predominance, abdominal pain and visceral hypersensitivity), psychological disturbances, and patient preferences between herbal treatments versus pharmacological therapies, dietary or microbiological approaches. Herein, we gathered the latest scientific data between 1973 and 2019 from databases such as PubMed, Google Scholar, Scopus and Cochrane library on relevant studies concerning beneficial effects of herbal treatments for IBS, in particular polyphenols. This is concluded that polyphenols might be applicable for preventing IBS and improving the IBS symptoms, mainly through suppressing the inflammatory signaling pathways, which nowadays are known as novel platform for the IBS management. Graphical abstract.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31273572	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273572	Diarrhea
Familial cancer	Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer: cancer risk and the personal cost of preventive surgery.	Germline CDH1 mutation carriers are at risk for early-onset diffuse gastric cancer (DGC) and female carriers have an additional risk of lobular breast cancer. The reported literature GC risk of 70% has led to the recommendation for germline mutation carriers to undergo prophylactic total gastrectomy (PTG). The objective of this research was to examine post-surgical clinical outcomes and to identify which of the domains/symptoms from the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer QOL Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) were determinants of overall quality of life (QOL) in individuals undergoing PTG. Participants were recruited through multiple sources. Postsurgical clinical outcomes were obtained from hospital records. Participants completed validated questionnaires measuring generic and condition specific QOL (PROMIS, EORTC and SF 36v.II) at a single point in time. The mean QOL in this cohort was 70.6 (SD = 25.6), which is better than reference values from the general populations in USA and Canada Role and social function plus the symptoms anxiety, pain, taste, dyspnea and diarrhea were significant predictor variables for QOL (p < 0.05). Although this study reveals good overall QOL for individuals after PTG, attention should be given to managing symptoms as part of long term care to further enhance QOL. The function/symptom scores were associated with worse overall health and global health status and thus may mark a real need for more attentive post-surgical care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31273560	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273560	Diarrhea
Gan to kagaku ryoho. Cancer & chemotherapy	[Efficacy and Safety of Ixazomib-Lenalidomide-Dexamethasone Therapy for Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma].	Ixazomib, an oral proteasome inhibitor, has been demonstrated to significantly improve progression-free survival(PFS)in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma(RRMM). Ixazomib has recently been approved in Japan, but its effectiveness and safety have not been fully investigated in a clinical setting. We retrospectively analyzed the records of 28 patients with RRMM who were treated with ixazomib in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone(IRd)in our institution between June 2017 and June 2018. The median patient age was 75 years at the start of IRd therapy. In total, 46.4% of the patients had previously received more than 3 treatment lines, prior to this study. The overall response rate was 37.0%, and the median PFS was 286 days. Over a median of 5 cycles of IRd, Grade 3 to 4 leukocytopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia occurred in 17.9%, 14.3%, and 32.1% of the patients, respectively; these incidences were higher than in previous reports. The severity of diarrhea or rash, however, was comparable with that in other studies. Patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate of less than 50mL/min/1.73m2 received a lower cumulative dose of ixazomib and lenalidomide than those with other rates. PFS did not significantly differ between the 2 groups. Although it is necessary to carefully observe IRdtreated patients for hematological toxicity, IRd therapy is effective in heavily pretreated RRMM patients. It might be reasonable to reduce the dose of ixazomib in patients with renal impairment.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31273172	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273172	Diarrhea
Gan to kagaku ryoho. Cancer & chemotherapy	[Measures to Ensure Safety of Docetaxel plus Ramucirumab for Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer as the Second- or Later-Line].	With the standpoint ofref ining the chemotherapy regimen, we retrospectively reviewed adverse events encountered by the initial 10 cases during the first course of docetaxel plus ramucirumab for non-small-cell lung cancer that progressed after platinum-based chemotherapy. Febrile neutropenia(FN)was observed in 40% ofcases, and a halfofall patients experienced oral mucositis, including 2 Grade 3 cases. These results were concordant with a previous randomized phaseⅡstudy on Japanese patients. We amended the treatment regimen by adding the prophylactic use ofpegf ilgrastim. Post-amendment, FN was not observed in all 10 cases. However, the frequency and severity of chemotherapy-induced oral mucositis were not affected; Therefore, some patients discontinued treatment due to this toxicity as well as diarrhea. In conclusion, prophylactic granulocyte-colony stimulating factor is considered effective for reducing the risk of FN. Further intervention by an oral care team is required to validate our findings.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31273171	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273171	Diarrhea
Clinical therapeutics	Effects of a High-fat Meal on the Pharmacokinetics of the VEGFR Inhibitor Fruquintinib: A Randomized Phase I Study in Healthy Subjects.	The overall bioavailability of the evaluated formulation of fruquintinib was not affected by the consumption of a high-fat, high-calorie meal prior to dosing. However, the consumption of a high-fat, high-calorie meal prior to dosing prolonged the T	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31272709	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272709	Diarrhea
Mayo Clinic proceedings	Ulcerative Colitis.	Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease that can involve any aspect of the colon starting with mucosal inflammation in the rectum and extending proximally in a continuous fashion. Typical symptoms on presentation are bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, fecal urgency, and tenesmus. In some patients, extraintestinal manifestations may predate the onset of gastrointestinal symptoms. A diagnosis of UC is made on the basis of presenting symptoms consistent with UC as well as endoscopic evidence showing continuous and diffuse colonic inflammation that starts in the rectum. Biopsies of the colon documenting chronic inflammation confirm the diagnosis of UC. Most cases are treated with pharmacological therapy to first induce remission and then to maintain a corticosteroid-free remission. There are multiple classes of drugs used to treat the disease. For mild to moderate UC, oral and rectal 5-aminosalycilates are typically used. In moderate to severe colitis, medication classes include thiopurines, biological agents targeting tumor necrosis factor and integrins, and the small-molecule Janus kinase inhibitors. However, in up to 15% of cases, patients in whom medical therapy fails or who have development of dysplasia secondary to their long-standing colitis will require surgical treatment. Finally, to minimize the complications of UC and adverse events from medications, a working collaboration between primary care physicians and gastroenterologists is necessary to make sure that vaccinations are optimized and that patients are screened for colon cancer, skin cancer, bone loss, depression, and other treatable and preventable complications.	2019	eng	Review	England	31272578	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272578	Diarrhea
BMC gastroenterology	Fecal microbiota transplantation for ulcerative colitis: a prospective clinical study.	The clinical trial was retrospectively registered with ClinicalTrials.gov ( NCT03016780 ) on January 11th, 2017.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31272391	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272391	Diarrhea
Journal of veterinary diagnostic investigation : official publication of the American Association of Veterinary Laboratory Diagnosticians, Inc	Pyogranulomatous enteritis and mesenteric lymphadenitis in an adult llama caused by 	We report herein 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31272304	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272304	Diarrhea
Cell cycle (Georgetown, Tex.)	From psychology to physicality: how nerve growth factor transduces early life stress into gastrointestinal motility disorders later in life.	Environmental stressors in early childhood can have a detrimental impact later in life, manifesting in functional gastrointestinal disorders including irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The phenomenon is also observed in rodents, where neonatal-maternal separation, a model of early life stress, induces phenotypes similar to IBS; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unelucidated. Our recent study provided a mechanism for the pathogenesis in the gut, demonstrating that increased visceral hyperalgesia resulted from the expansion of the intestinal stem cell compartment leading to increased differentiation and proliferation of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine/5-HT)-producing enterochromaffin cells. Moreover, it identified nerve growth factor (NGF) as a key mediator of the pathogenesis; surprisingly, it exerts its effect via cross talk with Wnt/β-catenin signaling. This article addresses the roles of NGF in driving IBS and its potential clinical implications, outstanding questions in how psychological stimuli are transduced into physical phenotypes, as well as future directions of our findings. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31272268	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31272268	Diarrhea
Journal of pediatric endocrinology & metabolism : JPEM	Contiguous gene deletion in a Chinese family with X-linked nephrogenic diabetes insipidus: challenges in early diagnosis and implications for affected families.	Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a rare disorder of the renal collecting tubules, characterized by an inability to concentrate urine due to an impaired response to arginine vasopressin (AVP), resulting in dilute urine and polyuria. Causes of NDI are heterogeneous and diagnosing congenital NDI (cNDI) in young infants is clinically challenging, as typical symptoms are often unappreciated or inconspicuous. Instead, young infants may present with non-specific signs such as vomiting, poor feeding, failure to thrive, unexplained fevers, irritability, constipation or diarrhea. We report a 37-day-old infant who presented with polyuria and severe hypernatremic dehydration that was unresponsive to vasopressin. The patient was treated with amiloride, indomethacin and hydrochlorothiazide. Genetic analysis revealed a novel contiguous deletion involving the entire AVPR2 gene and the last exon of the adjacent ARHGAP4 gene. A study of the family confirmed the carrier status in the mother. This case illustrates the importance of molecular testing in confirming the diagnosis in the index patient, as well as in identifying asymptomatic at-risk female carriers so that appropriate genetic counselling can be given for reproductive planning. All pediatric patients with suspected cNDI should undergo genetic analysis for a definitive diagnosis.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Germany	31271558	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31271558	Diarrhea
Infection & chemotherapy	Guideline for the Antibiotic Use in Acute Gastroenteritis.	Acute gastroenteritis is common infectious disease in community in adults. This work represents an update of 'Clinical guideline for the diagnosis and treatment of gastrointestinal infections' that was developed domestically in 2010. The recommendation of this guideline was developed regarding the following; epidemiological factors, test for diagnosis, the indications of empirical antibiotics, and modification of antibiotics after confirming pathogen. Ultimately, it is expected to decrease antibiotic misuse and prevent antibiotic resistance.	2019	eng	Review	Korea (South)	31271003	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31271003	Diarrhea
Infection & chemotherapy	Norovirus Outbreak in a Kindergarten: Human to Human Transmission among Children.	An outbreak of acute gastroenteritis was reported from a kindergarten on January 5, 2018 and investigation was conducted. A case was defined as a kindergartener presented with vomiting or diarrhea twice a day between January 1 and January 5, 2018. All kindergarteners were interviewed to identify the factor associated with case development. Fifteen (31.3%) children of a total of 48 were identified as cases, and four were confirmed to be Group II, Norovirus positive. In our study, based on the pattern of epidemic curve and different attack rate by classroom in a kindergarten, Norovirus was likely transmitted from human to human.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31270996	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270996	Diarrhea
Infection & chemotherapy	Safety and Effectiveness Analysis of Kivexa® (lamivudine/abacavir sulfate) in Human Immunodeficiency Virus Infected Korean Patients.	The post-marketing surveillance showed the safety of Kivexa in HIV-1 patients in Korea. Ischemic cardiovascular events and hypersensitivity associated with Kivexa were few. There was no significant new safety information. This data may be helpful in implementing Kivexa and lamivudine/abacavir sulfate containing drugs in Korea.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31270994	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270994	Diarrhea
Infection & chemotherapy	Epidemiological Investigation of the Outbreak of Acute Respiratory Infection caused by Adenovirus Type B55 in a Physical Education School in 2017.	The outbreak is inferred to be occurred via propagated transmission among the students in the same athletic department, while the students with symptoms of respiratory infection continued performing school activities without any restrictions. Infection control measures such as early detection of symptoms of respiratory infection and restriction of group activity are necessary to prevent respiratory infection outbreak in the communal living setting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31270991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270991	Diarrhea
Journal of general internal medicine	Mind the Base Rate: an Exercise in Clinical Reasoning.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31270792	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270792	Diarrhea
Journal of virology	The guanine nucleotide exchange factor GBF1 participates in rotavirus replication.	Cellular and viral factors participate in the replication cycle of rotavirus. We report that the guanine nucleotide exchange factor GBF1, which activates the small GTPase Arf1 to induce COPI transport processes, is required for rotavirus replication since knocking down GBF1 expression by RNA interference, or inhibiting its activity by treatment with Brefeldin A (BFA) or Golgicide A (GCA) significantly reduce the yield of infectious viral progeny. This reduction in virus yield was related to a block in virus assembly since in the presence of either BFA or GCA the assembly of infectious mature triple-layered virions was significantly prevented and only doubled layered-particles were detected. We report that the catalytic activity of GBF1, but not the activation of Arf1, is essential for the assembly of the outer capsid of rotavirus. We show that both BFA and GCA, as well as interfering with the synthesis of GBF1, alter the electrophoretic mobility of glycoproteins VP7 and NSP4 and block the trimerization of the virus surface VP7, a step required for its incorporation into virus particles. Although a post-translational modification of VP7 (other than glycosylation) could be related to the lack of trimerization, we found that NSP4 might also be involved in this process, since knocking-down its expression reduces VP7 trimerizarion. In support, recombinant VP7 protein overexpressed in transfected cells formed trimers only when co-transfected with NSP4.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31270230	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270230	Diarrhea
Microbiology resource announcements	Complete Genome Sequence of Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli Siphophage LL5.	Here, we describe the complete genome sequence of siphophage LL5. LL5 is a T1-like phage isolated against enterotoxigenic 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31270204	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270204	Diarrhea
Microbiology resource announcements	Draft Genome Sequence of Escherichia albertii Strain Mex-12/320a, Isolated from an Infant with Diarrhea and Harboring Virulence Genes Associated with Diarrheagenic Strains of Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31270186	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270186	Diarrhea
Journal of clinical microbiology	Multicenter Clinical Validation of the Molecular-Based BD MAX™ Enteric Viral Panel for the Detection of Enteric Pathogens.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31270179	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270179	Diarrhea
Blood	Subcutaneous Delivery of Daratumumab in Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma.	Daratumumab, a human monoclonal antibody targeting CD38, is approved as monotherapy and in combination regimens for patients with multiple myeloma (MM). Currently, daratumumab is administered IV. The phase 1b PAVO (MMY1004) study evaluated subcutaneously administered daratumumab in combination with the recombinant human hyaluronidase PH20 enzyme (rHuPH20) in patients with relapsed or refractory MM (RRMM). Part 1 of the study, reported here, evaluated a mix-and-deliver (MD) formulation of daratumumab and rHuPH20 (DARA-MD) administered by subcutaneous infusion. Patients received subcutaneous daratumumab per the approved IV monotherapy dosing schedule at 1,200 mg (n=8) or 1,800 mg (n=45). Primary endpoints were safety and pharmacokinetics. The most common treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) with DARA-MD 1,200 mg were thrombocytopenia, upper respiratory tract infection (URTI), insomnia, and decreased appetite (37.5% each). Anemia (33.3%), URTI, pyrexia, and diarrhea (26.7% each) were the most common TEAEs with DARA-MD 1,800 mg. One patient in the 1,200 mg dose group (12.5%) and 11 patients in the 1,800 mg dose group (24.4%) experienced infusion-related reactions, which were generally grade 1-2 and typically occurred at the first infusion. The 1,800 mg dose achieved similar or greater serum concentrations compared to the 16 mg/kg IV dose. Overall response rates of 25.0% and 42.2% were achieved with 1,200 mg and 1,800 mg DARA-MD, respectively. Subcutaneous administration of DARA-MD was well tolerated in patients with RRMM, with the 1,800 mg dose demonstrating pharmacokinetic concentrations and responses consistent with IV daratumumab in a similar patient population. This study was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT02519452.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31270103	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270103	Diarrhea
BMC pediatrics	Mothers/caregivers healthcare seeking behavior towards childhood illness in selected health centers in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia: a facility-based cross-sectional study.	The common under-five childhood illnesses were acute respiratory tract infection and diarrhea. The study also revealed that there was a delay in seeking healthcare and this was significantly associated with age of the child; mothers/caregivers level of education; family size; perception of illness severity; previous experience of similar illnesses and under-five child death.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31269920	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269920	Diarrhea
Zhonghua er ke za zhi = Chinese journal of pediatrics	[Clinical and genotypic characteristics of infantile inflammatory bowel disease].	None	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31269551	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269551	Diarrhea
Polish journal of veterinary sciences	Effects of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus infection on tight junction protein gene expression and morphology of the intestinal mucosa in pigs.	Tight junction proteins are important for the maintenance and repair of the intestinal mucosal barrier. The present study investigated relationships among tight junction protein gene expression, porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) infection, and intestinal mucosal morphology in piglets. We compared the expression of six tight junction proteins (ZO-1, ZO-2, Occludin, Claudin-1, Claudin-4, and Claudin-5) between seven-day-old piglets infected with PEDV and normal piglets, as well as in PEDV-infected porcine intestinal epithelial cells (IPEC-J2). We also evaluated differences in mucosal morphology between PEDV-infected and normal piglets. The expression of six tight junction protein genes was lower in PEDV-infected piglets than in the normal animals. The expression of ZO-1, ZO-2, Occludin, and Claudin-4 in the intestine tissue was significantly lower (p⟨0.05) in PEDV-infected than in normal piglets. The expression of Claudin-5 in the jejunum was significantly lower in PEDV-infected piglets than in the normal animals (p⟨0.01). The expression of Claudin-1 and Claudin-5 genes in the ileum was significantly higher in PEDV-infected piglets than in normal piglets (p⟨0.01). Morphologically, the intestinal mucosa in PEDV-infected piglets exhibited clear pathological changes, including breakage and shedding of intestinal villi. In PEDV-infected IPEC-J2 cells, the mRNA expression of the six tight junction proteins showed a downward trend; in particular, the expression of the Occludin and Claudin-4 genes was significantly lower (p⟨0.01). These data suggest that the expression of these six tight junction proteins, especially Occludin and Claudin-4, plays an important role in maintaining the integrity of the intestinal mucosal barrier and resistance to PEDV infection in piglets.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31269354	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269354	Diarrhea
Polish journal of veterinary sciences	TaqMan real-time PCR for detecting bovine viral diarrhea virus.	The present study was aimed to establish a novel TaqMan real-time PCR (RTm-PCR) for detecting and typing bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and also to develop a diagnostic protocol which simplifies sample collection and processing. Universal primers and TaqMan-MGB probes were designed from the known sequences of conserved 5' - and 3'-untranslated regions (5'UTR, 3'UTR) of the NADL strain of BVDV. Prior to optimizing the assay, cDNAs were transcribed in vitro to make standard curves. The sensitivity, specificity and stability (reproducibility) were evaluated. The RTm-PCR was tested on the 312 feces specimens collected from persistently infected (PI) calves. The results showed the optimum conditions for RTm-PCR were 17.0 μmol/L primer, 7.5 μmol/L probe and 51.4°C annealing temperature. The established TaqMan RTm-PCR assay could specially detect BVDV without detecting any other viruses. Its detection limit was 1.55×100 copies/μL for viral RNA. It was 10000-fold higher than conventional PCR with excellent specificity and reproducibility. 312 samples were tested using this method and universal PCR from six dairy farms, respectively. Positive detections were found in 49 and 44 feces samples, respectively. The occurrence rate was 89.80%. In conclusion, the established TaqMan RTm-PCR could rapidly detect BVDV and effectively identify PI cattle. The detection limit of RTm-PCR was 1.55 copies/μL. It will be beneficial for enhancing diagnosis and therapy efficacy and reduce losses in cattle farms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31269348	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269348	Diarrhea
Pancreas	Diagnostic and Management Challenges in Vasoactive Intestinal Peptide Secreting Tumors: A Series of 15 Patients.	The management of VIPomas is challenging requiring the application of multiple treatment modalities. Patients who underwent surgical treatment with curative intent appear to have higher survival rate. Central registration and larger prospective studies are required to evaluate the effect of currently employed therapies in these patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31268974	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268974	Diarrhea
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	Inhibition of CFTR-mediated intestinal chloride secretion as potential therapy for bile acid diarrhea.	Bile acid diarrhea (BAD) is common with ileal resection, Crohn's disease, and diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. Here, we demonstrate the efficacy of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) inhibitor (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31268738	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268738	Diarrhea
Journal of veterinary internal medicine	Randomized, controlled, crossover trial of prevention of antibiotic-induced gastrointestinal signs using a synbiotic mixture in healthy research dogs.	Enrofloxacin/metronidazole administration is associated with a high frequency of AAGS. Synbiotic administration decreases food intake derangements. The presence of milder AAGS in period 2 suggests that clinical effects of synbiotics persist >9 weeks after discontinuation, mitigating AAGS in dogs being treated with antibiotics followed by placebo.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31268578	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268578	Diarrhea
Epilepsia	Inhaled alprazolam rapidly suppresses epileptic activity in photosensitive participants.	This proof-of-concept study demonstrated that Staccato alprazolam 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 mg rapidly suppressed epileptiform activity in photosensitive participants with epilepsy. The AE profile of Staccato alprazolam was similar to what has been reported for alprazolam for other indications. The results support further development of Staccato alprazolam as a rescue medication for the acute treatment of seizures.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31268555	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268555	Diarrhea
The Journal of nutrition	Vitamin A Supplementation Was Associated with Reduced Mortality in Patients with Ebola Virus Disease during the West African Outbreak.	Early vitamin A supplementation was associated with reduced mortality in patients with EVD, and should be further studied and considered for use in future epidemics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31268140	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268140	Diarrhea
Annali di igiene : medicina preventiva e di comunita	Clostridium difficile infection in cancer patients with hospital acquired diarrhea at the teaching hospitals in Iran: Multilocus sequence typing analysis (MLST) and Antimicrobial resistance pattern.	This is the first description of the MLST analysis of C. difficile strains isolated from cancer patients in Iran. All of the studied population were exposed to multiple antibiotics and chemotherapeutic agents. Further research and clinical studies are recommended in the treatment through good antimicrobial stewardship and prevention of C. difficile infection in all healthcare settings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31268121	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268121	Diarrhea
Annali di igiene : medicina preventiva e di comunita	Antimicrobial-resistance pattern of Shigella species in children: a six-year study in an Iranian referral Hospital.	In this study, S. sonnei was the predominant Shigella species. High frequency of resistance to common antimicrobials such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and ampicillin limits the empirical therapy for the management of shigellosis in Iran. On the other hand, it should be noted that third-generation cephalosporins can be convenient replacing drugs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31268120	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268120	Diarrhea
