 	Identifying Grassroots Opportunities and Barriers to mHealth Design for HIV/AIDS Using a Communicative Ecologies Framework	The aim of this qualitative study was to test how social and cultural research methods can be used to anticipate opportunities and barriers to the use of consumer mobile devices by community health workers (CHWs) for HIV/AIDS prevention, testing and treatment. An exploratory study was conducted with CHWs (n = 19) at the regional capitals of Denpasar and Makassar in Indonesia in order to build to a clearer picture of how the participants have integrated personal mobile handsets into their daily professional and personal routine. A communicative ecologies framework was applied to the research design which included a range of qualitative methods including in-depth interviews, focus group discussions and communicative ecology mapping. Our main findings revealed that there was no bottom-up impetus for the introduction of a formal mHealth system to support client interactions. Existing client data collection systems were locked into paper-based systems to ensure compatibility with local government and/or funding body administrative systems; hence, mobile device-based data collection would require additional processes by the participants. Boundary issues were reported with regard to out of hours contact by clients. Some CHWs sent SMS medication reminders to clients but the strong preference indicated by all participating CHWs was to meet clients face-to-face in order to build and maintain trust through the in-person counselling process, rather than introduce mobile-mediated interaction.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314400	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314400	HIV
Immunity	Rapid and Focused Maturation of a VRC01-Class HIV Broadly Neutralizing Antibody Lineage Involves Both Binding and Accommodation of the N276-Glycan.	The VH1-2 restricted VRC01-class of antibodies targeting the HIV envelope CD4 binding site are a major focus of HIV vaccine strategies. However, a detailed analysis of VRC01-class antibody development has been limited by the rare nature of these responses during natural infection and the lack of longitudinal sampling of such responses. To inform vaccine strategies, we mapped the development of a VRC01-class antibody lineage (PCIN63) in the subtype C infected IAVI Protocol C neutralizer PC063. PCIN63 monoclonal antibodies had the hallmark VRC01-class features and demonstrated neutralization breadth similar to the prototype VRC01 antibody, but were 2- to 3-fold less mutated. Maturation occurred rapidly within ∼24 months of emergence of the lineage and somatic hypermutations accumulated at key contact residues. This longitudinal study of broadly neutralizing VRC01-class antibody lineage reveals early binding to the N276-glycan during affinity maturation, which may have implications for vaccine design.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315032	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315032	HIV
The New England journal of medicine	HIV-1 Epidemic Control - Insights from Test-and-Treat Trials.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31314975	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314975	HIV
The New England journal of medicine	Universal Testing, Expanded Treatment, and Incidence of HIV Infection in Botswana.	Expanded HIV testing, linkage to care, and ART coverage were associated with increased population viral suppression. (Funded by the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and others; Ya Tsie ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01965470.).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314967	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314967	HIV
The New England journal of medicine	HIV Testing and Treatment with the Use of a Community Health Approach in Rural Africa.	Universal HIV treatment did not result in a significantly lower incidence of HIV infection than standard care, probably owing to the availability of comprehensive baseline HIV testing and the rapid expansion of ART eligibility in the control group. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and others; SEARCH ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01864603.).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314966	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314966	HIV
The New England journal of medicine	Effect of Universal Testing and Treatment on HIV Incidence - HPTN 071 (PopART).	A combination prevention intervention with ART provided according to local guidelines resulted in a 30% lower incidence of HIV infection than standard care. The lack of effect with universal ART was unanticipated and not consistent with the data on viral suppression. In this trial setting, universal testing and treatment reduced the population-level incidence of HIV infection. (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and others; HPTN 071 [PopArt] ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01900977.).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314965	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314965	HIV
Revista brasileira de psiquiatria (Sao Paulo, Brazil : 1999)	Incidence of depression in patients with hepatitis C treated with direct-acting antivirals.	The findings of this study highlight the importance of screening for new depression among patients receiving new DAAs, and identify potential associated risk factors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314868	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314868	HIV
PloS one	Which community-based HIV initiatives are effective in achieving UNAIDS 90-90-90 targets? A systematic review and meta-analysis of evidence (2007-2018).	Data on linkage to care/on treatment (second target) remained weak, because many studies reported successes on the first and third targets. Stratification by targets and country income levels is informative and guides adaptation of successful interventions in comparable settings. Consistent reporting of clear metrics aligned with UNAIDS targets will aid in synergy of study data with programmatic data that will help reportage. Exploration of innovative interventions, for engagement and linkage and deployment of community/ peer workers is strongly encouraged.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314764	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314764	HIV
LGBT health	Sexual Orientation Identity, Race/Ethnicity, and Lifetime HIV Testing in a National Probability Sample of U.S. Women and Men: An Intersectional Approach.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314667	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314667	HIV
AIDS patient care and STDs	Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale: Evaluation of a New Cutoff Score for Women Living with HIV.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314577	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314577	HIV
The Cochrane database of systematic reviews	Genetic testing for prevention of severe drug-induced skin rash.	Prospective screening for HLA-B*57:01 probably reduces severe hypersensitivity skin reactions to abacavir in patients positive for HIV-type 1. However, these results are only based on one study, which was at high risk of attrition and detection bias.Our primary outcomes (incidence of severe skin rashes with systemic symptoms, and long-term effects) were not assessed by the trial, and only one of the review's secondary outcomes was measured (hypersensitivity reaction); thus, we found no evidence relating to hospitalisation, death, or long-term conditions resulting from drug injury.We found no eligible evidence on genetic testing for severe drug-induced skin rash in relation to different drugs and classes of drugs. Further clinical trials based on other drugs, and in different patient populations, would be useful for advising policy changes for improving the prevention of adverse skin reactions to drug treatments.	2019	eng	Review	England	31314143	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314143	HIV
The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy	Evaluation of HIV-1 reservoir levels as possible markers for virological failure during boosted darunavir monotherapy.	HIV-1 reservoir markers correlate with therapy failure in ritonavir-boosted darunavir monotherapy. However, their role as a predictive marker combined with other markers in a routine clinical setting should be further explored.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314108	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314108	HIV
The Journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism	Comorbidities and Survival in Patients with Lipodystrophy: An International Chart Review Study.	This large-scale study provides comprehensive, long-term data across multiple countries on the natural history of non-HIV-related lipodystrophy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314093	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314093	HIV
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	confUrine Tenofovir Concentrations Correlate with Plasma and Relates to TDF Adherence: A Randomized Directly-observed Pharmacokinetic Trial (TARGET Study).	Urine TFV concentrations can inform interpretation of novel point-of-care urine-based TFV assays to assess recent TDF adherence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314073	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314073	HIV
Journal of investigative and clinical dentistry	Oral candidal carriage correlates with CD4	HIV status results in significantly elevated rates of OCC C albicans remains the predominant pathogen, although other species are emerging rapidly. Resistance to fluconazole is on the rise, and more efficient treatment strategies need to be implemented.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31313889	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313889	HIV
Statistics in medicine	Assessing pharmacokinetic marker correlates of outcome, with application to antibody prevention efficacy trials.	The Antibody Mediated Prevention efficacy trials are the first studies to evaluate whether passive administration of a broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibody can prevent human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) acquisition. The trials randomize 4600 HIV-negative volunteers to receive 10 infusions of the monoclonal antibody VRC01 or placebo. The primary objective compares the incidence of HIV infection between the study groups. The secondary objective assesses whether and how a marker defined as the serum concentration of VRC01 over time associates with the instantaneous rate of HIV infection, using a two-phase sampling design, a pharmacokinetic model for the time-concentration curve, and an estimator of HIV infection times. While a Cox model with a time-dependent covariate constitutes an important approach to this problem, the low interindividual versus intraindividual marker variability limits its power, motivating us to develop two alternative methods that condition on outcome status: (1) an indirect method that checks whether HIV-infected cases have unexpectedly long times from the most recent infusion to the estimated infection date and (2) a direct method that checks whether the marker itself is unexpectedly low at estimated infection dates. In simulations and a pseudo Antibody Mediated Prevention application, we find that method (2) (but not (1)) has greater power than the Cox model. We also find that the quality of the infection time estimator majorly impacts method performance, and thus, incorporating details of an optimized estimator is critical. The methods apply more generally for assessing a time-dependent longitudinal marker as a correlate of risk when the marker trajectory is modeled pharmacokinetically.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313349	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313349	HIV
International journal of behavioral medicine	Post-traumatic Stress Disorder, Cocaine Use, and HIV Persistence.	Further research is needed to examine the potentially bi-directional pathways linking PTSD symptom severity and HIV persistence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313251	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313251	HIV
Journal of religion and health	"Not in My House": Perspectives on HIV/AIDS of Afro-Caribbean Adolescents Living in South Florida.	Florida has the highest number of PLWH in the USA, with the highest incidence being among young African-Americans. The purpose of this qualitative inquiry was to gain an understanding of the knowledge and attitudes to HIV/AIDS among Afro-Caribbean adolescents. Using a faith-based community, we conducted four focus group sessions with 40 Afro-Caribbean teens. Descriptive content and thematic analyses were used to examine the data. Themes identified include awareness gap, temptation everywhere, testing anxiety and stigma. Recommendations include continued exploration and interventions to address stigma in faith-based communities. Implications are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313108	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313108	HIV
AIDS and behavior	Changes in Reported Injection Behaviors Following the Public Health Response to an HIV Outbreak Among People Who Inject Drugs: Indiana, 2016.	A syringe services program (SSP) was established following the Indiana HIV outbreak among persons who inject drugs (PWID) in Scott County. Among Indiana-based PWID, we examined injection behaviors associated with HIV status, SSP use after its establishment, and changes in injection behaviors after the outbreak response. During 2016, we interviewed 200 PWID and assessed injection behaviors before the response by HIV status. We reported injection behaviors prior to the response and used Fisher's exact Chi square tests (P < 0.05) to assess differences by HIV status. Next, among persons who injected both before (July-December 2014) and after (past 30 days) the response, we (1) reported the proportion of persons who used the SSP to obtain sterile syringes, and assessed differences in SSP use by HIV status using Fisher's exact Chi square tests; and (2) compared distributive and receptive sharing of injection equipment and disposal of syringes before and after the outbreak response, and assessed statistical differences using McNemar's test. We also compared injection behaviors before and after the response by HIV status. Injecting extended release oxymorphone (Opana® ER); receptive sharing of syringes and cookers; and distributive sharing of cookers, filters, or water before the response were associated with HIV infection. SSP use was high (86%), particularly among HIV-positive compared with HIV-negative persons (98% vs. 84%). Injection equipment sharing decreased and safe disposal of used syringes increased after the response, especially among HIV-positive persons. Injection equipment sharing contributed to the outbreak. High SSP use following the response, particularly among HIV-positive persons, contributed to decreased high-risk injection practices.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313095	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313095	HIV
AIDS and behavior	Historical and Current Trends in HIV Criminalization in South Carolina: Implications for the Southern HIV Epidemic.	In the 1980s, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) criminalization laws became widespread across the United States. Today, such laws continue to be used to prosecute people living with HIV for a variety of behaviors though there is limited evidence that doing so curbs HIV transmission. HIV criminalization remains understudied, especially in the Deep South. Therefore, the purpose of this paper was to trace the emergence, maintenance, and enforcement of HIV criminalization laws in South Carolina-a Southern state disproportionately burdened by HIV. Specifically, Nexis Uni and other criminology databases were used to identify HIV-related laws and criminal cases in South Carolina. Results indicate that the state's criminalization laws have remained nearly unchanged for over 30 years and continue to be used to prosecute individuals, a majority of whom are African-American. Findings support the need to reconsider HIV-related laws and devote more efforts to studying the impact of HIV criminalization on the Southern epidemic.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313094	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313094	HIV
AIDS and behavior	eHealth Interventions for Early Infant Diagnosis: Mothers' Satisfaction with the HIV Infant Tracking System in Kenya.	The HIV Infant Tracking System (HITSystem) is an eHealth intervention to improve early infant diagnosis (EID) through alerts to providers and text messages to mothers. This study explored mothers' experiences receiving standard and HITSystem-enhanced EID services to assess perceived intervention benefits, acceptability, and opportunities for improvement. This qualitative study was embedded within a cluster-randomized control trial to evaluate the HITSystem at six Kenyan government hospitals (3 intervention, 3 control). We conducted semi-structured interviews with 137 mothers attending EID follow-up visits. Compared to control sites, participants at HITSystem sites described enhanced EID quality; HITSystem-generated texts informed them of result availability and retesting needs, provided cues-to-action for clinic attendance, and engendered opportunities for patient support. They described improved EID efficiency through shorter waiting periods for results and fewer hospital visits. Participants reported high satisfaction with EID and acceptability of text messages; however, modifications to ensure text delivery, increase repeat testing reminders, include low literacy content options, and provide encouraging messages were suggested. These user experience data suggest improvements in EID at HITSystem sites when compared with control sites.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313093	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313093	HIV
AIDS and behavior	New Measures for Research on Men Who Have Sex with Men and for At-Risk Heterosexuals: Tools to Study Links Between Structural Interventions or Large-Scale Social Change and HIV Risk Behaviors, Service Use, and Infection.	Large-scale structural interventions and "Big Events" like revolutions, wars and major disasters can affect HIV transmission by changing the sizes of at-risk populations, making high-risk behaviors more or less likely, or changing contexts in which risk occurs. This paper describes new measures to investigate hypothesized pathways that could connect macro-social changes to subsequent HIV transmission. We developed a "menu" of novel scales and indexes on topics including norms about sex and drug injecting under different conditions, experiencing denial of dignity, agreement with cultural themes about what actions are needed for survival or resistance, solidarity and other issues. We interviewed 298 at-risk heterosexuals and 256 men who have sex with men in New York City about these measures and possible validators for them. Most measures showed evidence of criterion validity (absolute magnitude of Pearson's r ≥ 0.20) and reliability (Cronbach's alpha ≥ 0.70). These measures can be (cautiously) used to understand how macro-changes affect HIV and other risk. Many can also be used to understand risk contexts and dynamics in more normal situations. Additional efforts to improve and to replicate the validation of these measures should be conducted.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313092	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313092	HIV
Rheumatology international	Kawasaki disease and immunodeficiencies in children: case reports and literature review.	Kawasaki disease (KD) has features that appear supporting an infectious cause with a secondary deranged inflammatory/autoimmune response. The association of KD in adults with human immunodeficiency virus infection and the presence of KD in patients with immunodeficiency disorders support the infectious theory. We present four KD patients associated with immunodeficiencies: one with X-linked agammaglobulinemia, one with HIV infection, and two with leukemia; one of these patients also had Down syndrome. We did a literature search to find out all reported cases of immunodeficiency with KD in children. In immunodeficiency disorders, the inability of the immune system to eradicate the pathogens coupled to an exaggerated inflammatory response, especially in chronic granulomatous disease, may lead to the development of KD. The study of patients with immunodeficiencies complicated with KD may shed light into the etiopathogenesis of the disease.	2019	eng	Review	Germany	31312887	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312887	HIV
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Neurologic symptomatic cryptococcal antigenaemia in a patient with well-controlled HIV.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312835	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312835	HIV
EClinicalMedicine	Therapeutic Vaccination Refocuses T-cell Responses Towards Conserved Regions of HIV-1 in Early Treated Individuals (BCN 01 study).	Evidence Before this Study: T cells play an important role in the control of HIV infection and may be particularly useful for HIV-1 cure by killing cells with reactivated HIV-1. Evidence is emerging that not all T-cell responses are protective and mainly only those targeting conserved regions of HIV-1 proteins are effective, but typically immunologically subdominant, while those recognizing hypervariable, easy-to-escape immunodominant 'decoys' do not control viremia and do not protect from a loss of CD4 T cells. We pioneered a vaccine strategy focusing T-cell responses on the most conserved regions of the HIV-1 proteome using an immunogen designated HIVconsv. T cells elicited by the HIVconsv vaccines in HIV-uninfected UK and Kenyan adults inhibited in vitro replication of HIV-1 isolates from 4 major global clades A, B, C and D.Added Value of this Study: The present study demonstrated the concept that epitopes subdominant in natural infection, when taken out of the context of the whole HIV-1 proteome and presented to the immune system by a potent simian adenovirus prime-poxvirus MVA boost regimen, can induce strong responses in patients on antiretroviral treatment and efficiently refocus HIV-1-specific T-cells to the protective epitopes delivered by the vaccine.Implications of all the Available Evidence: Nearly all HIV-1 vaccine strategies currently emphasize induction of broadly neutralizing Abs. The HIVconsv vaccine is one of a very few approaches focussing exclusively on elicitation of T cells and, therefore, can complement antibody induction for better prevention and cure. Given the cross-clade reach on the HIVconsv immunogen design, if efficient, the HIVconsv vaccines could be deployed globally. Effective vaccines will likely be a necessary component in combination with other available preventive measures for halting the HIV-1/AIDS epidemic.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312806	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312806	HIV
Health equity	Assessing the Acceptability of a Peer Mentor Mother Intervention to Improve Retention in Care of Postpartum Women Living with HIV.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312780	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312780	HIV
Journal of preventive medicine and hygiene	Impact of training conferences on high-school students' knowledge of sexually transmitted infections (STIs).	This study, part of the health promotion program of a high school in Milan (Italy), was aimed at evaluating the impact of training conferences on the awareness of STIs among adolescents aged 16-17. Students attending the 3rd class of a Scientific and Linguistic High School in Milan (Italy) participated in this study in November 2017. All students gave their anonymous answers on a voluntary basis in a pre-test survey, designed by psychologists and infectious diseases specialists, to test their basic knowledge, accuracy, and awareness of STIs. After a two-hour interactive conference, the students were asked to answer the post-test survey. A higher awareness of the spread and the mode of transmission of STIs, of high risk sexual and behavioural practices and prevention methods was observed in the post-test compared to the pre-test. These findings outline both the need for sexual-health communication campaigns targeted at adolescents, who are at great risk of exposure and mostly unaware of STIs other than HIV/AIDS, and the short-term efficacy of a direct approach to the problem, guided by experts in infectious diseases and psychology. A long-term assessment of the effects of training conferences needs to be evaluated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31312736	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312736	HIV
Cureus	A Case Report: Tragic Death in a Young Patient with Human Immunodeficiency Virus Due to Cryptococcal Meningitis.	Cryptococcal meningitis is a systemic infection that can be seen in immunosuppressed patients. Altered mental status, somnolence, and obtundation are warning signs of poor prognosis or advanced disease processes. We present a 23-year-old female with a past medical history significant for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) obtained via vertical transmission who presented to the emergency department (ED) with a gradual onset of worsening headache over 10 days, with blurry vision, photophobia, nausea and vomiting, and progressive memory lapses. Her blood tests, chest plain radiograph, and non-contrast brain computed tomography (CT) were normal. In the ED, she developed a fever of 102°F and became more confused and agitated, with interspersed screaming and yelling. A lumbar puncture (LP) showed elevated white blood cell count and was positive for Cryptococcus neoformans; an opening pressure was unable to be obtained due to patient agitation. Despite prompt intravenous antibiotics and antifungal medications, her short, but tenuous hospital course involved declining mental status, requiring intubation and multiple therapeutic lumbar punctures, with an elevated opening pressure of up to 55 cm H2O. The patient suffered global ischemic encephalopathy and died on hospital day two. This case highlights the rapid decompensation of a young immunocompromised patient with cryptococcal meningitis, as well as the importance of early disease management and consultation to neurology and neurosurgery services. An important paradigm difference for emergency medicine (EM) physicians in the management of increased intracranial pressure (ICP) in patients with cryptococcal meningitis is avoiding acetazolamide, mannitol, and steroids and considering the indication for neurosurgical interventions for severe cryptococcal meningitis.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31312577	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312577	HIV
The Pan African medical journal	Maternal and foetal medical conditions during pregnancy as determinants of intrapartum stillbirth in public health facilities of Addis Ababa: a case-control study.	untreated chronic medical conditions, infection, poor monitoring of foetal conditions and multiple pregnancy are among important risk factors for intrapartum stillbirth.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312337	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312337	HIV
The Pan African medical journal	[Varicella (chickenpox) morbidity and mortality in hospital: about 19 cases collected at the Yalgado Ouedraogo University Hospital, Burkina Faso].	Varicella is a viral disease whose cause is poorly known in Burkina Faso. The aim of this study is to describe varicella features in the department of infectious diseases at the Yalgado Ouedraogo University Hospital. We here report a series of 19 cases of patients hospitalized between the 1	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31312335	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312335	HIV
The Pan African medical journal	[Knowledge attitudes and practices of hairdressing salon staff on HIV infection in Lome Togo].	this study shows that hairdressers and their apprentices have good knowledge about HIV infection/AIDS, its modes of transmission and prevention means in hair salons. However, it highlights that the disinfection of soiled equipment and the behaviour of hairdressers and their apprentices in the case of blood exposure accident are sometimes improper.	2019	fre	Journal Article	Uganda	31312328	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312328	HIV
The Pan African medical journal	Predictors of loss to follow-up among children attending HIV clinic in a hospital in rural Kenya.	LTFU of HIV infected children was common with an incidence of 32.9 per 1000 child years and occurred early in treatment and risk factors included poverty, low caregiver education, male child and early HIV disease stage.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312327	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312327	HIV
The Pan African medical journal	Effect of HIV infection on TB treatment outcomes and time to mortality in two urban hospitals in Ghana-a retrospective cohort study.	The uptake of ART in co-infected individuals in this study was very low. Measures should be put in place to improve ART coverage among persons with TB/HIV co-infection to help reduce mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312318	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312318	HIV
The Pan African medical journal	Frequency of HIV status disclosure, associated factors and outcomes among HIV positive pregnant women at Mbarara Regional Referral Hospital, southwestern Uganda.	Participants disclosed mainly to their partners and were comforted and many of them were encouraged by the health workers. There is need to optimize disclosure merits to enable increased participation in treatment and support programs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312312	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312312	HIV
The Pan African medical journal	Prevalence of HIV infection among siblings of HIV positive children in Calabar, Nigeria.	All the four HIV positive siblings were from the lower socioeconomic class (p=0.022). The routine screening of siblings of HIV positive children should be sustained with focus on adolescents from the lower socioeconomic class. This will improve early identification and enrolment into care thereby reducing paediatric mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31312293	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312293	HIV
Neuro-ophthalmology (Aeolus Press)	Coexistence of Papillitis and Posterior Placoid Chorioretinopathy as the Presenting Symptoms of Syphilis-Human Immunodeficiency Virus Coinfection.	A 27-year-old male was presented with a decrease in vision in the left eye. Best-corrected visual acuity was 10/10 in the right eye and counting fingers at 2 m in the left eye. On fundus examination, the left optic disc was oedematous and there was a wide yellowish, well-defined placoid lesion between the temporal vascular arcades with mild vitreous inflammation. However, a small yellowish well-defined placoid lesion was detected in the inferior temporal region of the macula in the right eye. He was diagnosed with posterior placoid chorioretinopathy (PPC), papillitis, and neurosyphilis after performing fundus fluorescein angiography, fundus autofluorescence imaging, optical coherence tomography, serology for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and syphilis, and cerebrospinal fluid examination. Intravenous penicillin treatment was commenced as soon as the diagnosis was established. Seven days after treatment initiation, lesions were partially regressed. PPC and papillitis are rare manifestations of ocular syphilis. In addition, neurosyphilis may also accompany these manifestations. Therefore, syphilis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients who have PPC or papillitis and all patients should be tested for HIV coinfection and neurosyphilis.	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31312245	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312245	HIV
Frontiers in microbiology	GS-CA Compounds: First-In-Class HIV-1 Capsid Inhibitors Covering Multiple Grounds.	Recently reported HIV-1 capsid (CA) inhibitors GS-CA1 and GS-6207 (an analog of GS-CA1) are first-in-class compounds with long-acting potential. Reportedly, both compounds have greater potency than currently approved anti-HIV drugs. Due to the limited access to experimental data and the compounds themselves, a detailed mechanism of their inhibition is yet to be delineated. Using crystal structures of capsid-hexamers bound to well-studied capsid inhibitor PF74 and molecular modeling, we predict that GS-CA compounds bind in the pocket that is shared by previously reported CA inhibitors and host factors. Additionally, comparative modeling suggests that GS-CA compounds have unique structural features contributing to interactions with capsid. To test their proposed binding mode, we also report the design of a cyclic peptide combining structural units from GS-CA compounds, host factors, and previously reported capsid inhibitors. This peptide (Pep-1) binds CA-hexamer with a docking score comparable to GS-CA compounds. Affinity determination by MicroScale thermophoresis (MST) assays showed that CA binds Pep-1 with a ~7-fold better affinity than well-studied capsid inhibitor PF74, suggesting that it can be developed as a possible CA inhibitor.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312185	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312185	HIV
Nature reviews. Microbiology	Restriction of HIV-1 and other retroviruses by TRIM5.	Mammalian cells express a variety of innate immune proteins - known as restriction factors - which defend against invading retroviruses such as HIV-1. Two members of the tripartite motif protein family - TRIM5α and TRIMCyp - were identified in 2004 as restriction factors that recognize and inactivate the capsid shell that surrounds and protects the incoming retroviral core. Research on these TRIM5 proteins has uncovered a novel mode of non-self recognition that protects against cross-species transmission of retroviruses. Our developing understanding of the mechanism of TRIM5 restriction underscores the concept that core uncoating and reverse transcription of the viral genome are coordinated processes rather than discrete steps of the post-entry pathway of retrovirus replication. In this Review, we provide an overview of the current state of knowledge of the molecular mechanism of TRIM5-mediated restriction, highlight recent advances and discuss implications for the development of capsid-targeted antiviral therapeutics.	2019	eng	Review	England	31312031	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312031	HIV
Scientific reports	Extracellular vesicles from T cells overexpress miR-146b-5p in HIV-1 infection and repress endothelial activation.	Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection promotes a generalized activation of host responses that involves not only CD4 T cells, but also cells of the microenvironment, which are not directly infected, such as endothelial cells. The mechanisms triggering HIV-1-associated vascular alterations remain poorly understood. Extracellular vesicles (EVs), implicated in cell-to-cell communication, have been recently described as carriers of microRNAs (miRNAs). Here, we show that miR-146b-5p is upregulated in both CD4 T cells, CD4 T cell-derived EVs and circulating EVs obtained from antiretroviral therapy-naive HIV-1-infected patients. We further demonstrate that EVs from T cell line overexpressing miR-146b-5p mimics (miR-146b-EVs): 1) protect their miRNA cargo from RNase degradation, 2) transfer miR-146b-5p mimics into endothelial cells and 3) reduce endothelial inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo in the lungs of mice through the downregulation of nuclear factor-κB-responsive molecules. These data advance our understanding on chronic inflammatory responses affecting endothelial homeostasis, in infectious and non-infectious diseases and pave the way for potential new anti-inflammatory strategies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311940	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311940	HIV
mBio	Identification of Pathogen Genomic Differences That Impact Human Immune Response and Disease during Cryptococcus neoformans Infection.	Patient outcomes during infection are due to a complex interplay between the quality of medical care, host immunity factors, and the infecting pathogen's characteristics. To probe the influence of pathogen genotype on human survival, immune response, and other parameters of disease, we examined 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311883	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311883	HIV
Enfermeria clinica	HIV-related stigma, knowledge about HIV, HIV risk behavior and HIV testing motivation among women in Lampung, Indonesia.	Our findings have implications for nursing and healthcare practice as well as research, especially in supporting HIV testing for women who are at risk for HIV. Nurses should focus their attention on motivating women with a high risk of HIV to undergo early HIV testing.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31311744	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311744	HIV
Biochemical and biophysical research communications	HIV protease inhibitors block parasite signal peptide peptidases and prevent growth of Babesia microti parasites in erythrocytes.	Malaria and babesiosis are bloodborne protozoan infections for which the emergence of drug-resistant strains poses a threat. Our previous phage display cDNA screens established the essentiality of Plasmodium falciparum signal peptide peptidase (SPP) in asexual development at the blood stage of malaria infection. Given the structural similarities between SPP inhibitors and HIV protease inhibitors, we screened ten HIV protease inhibitors and selected Lopinavir and Atazanavir for their ability to inhibit PfSPP activity. Using a transcription-based assay, we observed that Lopinavir inhibits both parasite-and host-derived SPP activities whereas Atazanavir inhibited only parasite derived SPP activity. Consistent with their inhibitory effect on Plasmodium growth, both Lopinavir and Atazanavir strongly inhibited intraerythrocytic Babesia microti growth ex vivo. Moreover, Lopinavir prevented the steep rise in Babesia microti parasitemia typically observed in rag1-deficient mice. Our data provide first evidence that inhibition of parasite-derived SPPs by HIV protease inhibitors offers a promising therapeutic avenue for the treatment of severe babesiosis and infections caused by other Apicomplexa parasites.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311649	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311649	HIV
BMC research notes	HIV, immune activation and salt-sensitive hypertension (HISH): a research proposal.	Salt-sensitivity is associated with increased immune cell activation in animal studies. This concept has not been tested in people living with HIV. This study will therefore add more information in elucidating the interaction between HIV infection and/or anti-retroviral therapy (ART), immune-activation/inflammation and hypertension.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311574	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311574	HIV
BMC medical ethics	Experiences from a community advisory Board in the Implementation of early access to ART for all in Eswatini: a qualitative study.	The experiences of the first CAB in Eswatini demonstrate that community engagement using CABs is a valuable mechanism for engaging communities in implementation studies. Considerations that could impact CAB functioning include clearly defining the scope of the CAB, addressing issues of CAB independence, the CAB budget, providing emotional support for CAB members, and providing continuous training and capacity building. These issues should be addressed during the early stages of CAB formation in order to optimize functioning.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311526	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311526	HIV
Current medical research and opinion	Healthcare resource utilization and costs in patients with HIV-1 who switched first-line antiretroviral therapy.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311342	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311342	HIV
Psychology & health	Demographic and sexual risk predictors of delay discounting of condom-protected sex.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311321	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311321	HIV
AIDS care	HIV and employment among Black men who have sex with men in Baltimore.	Employment status is a key social determinant of health, and many populations in the United States that are impacted by HIV have unequal access to education and employment opportunities which contributes to HIV-related disparities. Black men who have sex with men (BMSM) are one of the groups most heavily burdened by HIV. With improved health outcomes associated with advancements in HIV treatment, research suggests that more people living with HIV want to work. This study describes employment among BMSM living in Baltimore, assesses differences in employment by HIV status and assesses predictors of full-time employment among BMSM. The study found that BMSM have limited access to full-time employment and that this disparity is even more pronounced among BMSM living with HIV. Men living with HIV were less likely to be employed full-time compared to men not living with HIV controlling for education and social contextual factors (OR 0.40 95% CI (0.22-0.73)). HIV will most likely have important implications for employment patterns and trajectories of BMSM over the life course. Additional research is needed among BMSM living with HIV to understand work histories and experiences, facilitating factors, and the impact of various work experiences on the health and wellbeing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311286	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311286	HIV
The International journal of health planning and management	A review of the incidence and determinants of catastrophic health expenditure in Nigeria: Implications for universal health coverage.	There is a high incidence of CHE across various common health conditions in Nigeria. CHE was more among the poor, elderly, rural dwellers, private facility utilization, female gender, and noninsured among others. We recommend expansion of the National Health Insurance Scheme via informal social and financing networks platforms. Increased budgetary allocation to health and intersectoral collaboration will also play a significant role in CHE reduction.	2019	eng	Review	England	31311065	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311065	HIV
Intervirology	HIV-1 Drug Resistance Mutations among Antiretroviral Drug-Experienced Patients in the South of Iran.	The highest frequency of antiretroviral DRMs was related to NRTIs and NNRTIs. In contrast, PI resistance mutations had the lowest frequency. Laboratory-guided ART to avoid the expansion of mutants as well as investigating DRMs in other viral regions, such as integrase, are recommended.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311021	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311021	HIV
Public health	Evaluating the effectiveness of the HIV adolescent package of care (APOC) training on viral load suppression in Kenya.	This study suggests that adolescent clinic days greatly improve adolescent viral load suppression and should be considered for implementation across HIV programs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310874	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310874	HIV
Travel medicine and infectious disease	Management of hospitalized drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis patients during the Hajj mass gathering: A cross sectional study.	Healthcare providers training and supervision are paramount to improve their knowledge and skill and ensure their compliance with existing TB management guidelines. However, there may be a need for the introduction of an international policy/guideline for TB control and management during mass gatherings such as the Hajj to guide providers' choices and facilitate monitoring.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310852	HIV
Experimental dermatology	Seborrheic Dermatitis - Looking beyond Malassezia.	Seborrheic Dermatitis (SD) is a very common chronic and/or relapsing inflammatory skin disorder whose pathophysiology remains poorly understood. Yeast of the genus Malassezia has long been regarded as a main predisposing factor, even though causal relationship has not been firmly established. Additional predisposing factors have been described, including sebaceous activity, host immunity (especially HIV infection), epidermal barrier integrity, skin microbiota, endocrine and neurologic factors, and environmental influences. Genetic studies in humans and mouse models-with particularly interesting insights from examining the Mpzl3 knockout mice and their SD-like skin phenotype, and patients carrying a ZNF750 mutation-highlight defects in host immunity, epidermal barrier and sebaceous activity. After synthesizing key evidence from the literature, we propose that intrinsic host factors, such as changes in the amount or composition of sebum and/or defective epidermal barrier, rather than Malassezia, may form the basis of SD pathobiology. We argue that these intrinsic changes provide favorable conditions for the commensal Malassezia to over-colonize and elicit host inflammatory response. Aberrant host immune activity or failure to clear skin microbes may bypass the initial epidermal or sebaceous abnormalities. We delineate specific future clinical investigations, complemented by studies in suitable SD animal models, that dissect the roles of different epidermal compartments and immune components as well as their crosstalk and interactions with the skin microbiota during the process of SD. This research perspective beyond the conventional Malassezia-centric view of SD pathogenesis is expected to enable the development of better therapeutic interventions for the management of recurrent SD. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31310695	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310695	HIV
Emerging infectious diseases	No Evidence for Role of Cutavirus in Malignant Melanoma.	Cutavirus was previously found in cutaneous melanoma. We detected cutavirus DNA in only 2/185 melanoma biopsies and in 0/52 melanoma metastases from patients in Germany. Viral DNA was localized in the upper epidermal layers. Swab specimens from healthy skin were cutavirus positive for 3.8% (9/237) of immunocompetent and 17.1% (35/205) of HIV-positive men.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310208	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310208	HIV
The Journal of organic chemistry	A Photochemical Route to Optically Active Hexahydro-4	We describe here the syntheses of optically pure (3a	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310117	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310117	HIV
Journal of natural products	Dimeric Pyranonaphthoquinone Glycosides with Anti-HIV and Cytotoxic Activities from a Soil-Derived 	Eight new sulfur-bridged pyranonaphthoquinone (PNQ) dimers, naquihexcins C-J (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310115	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310115	HIV
Revista espanola de quimioterapia : publicacion oficial de la Sociedad Espanola de Quimioterapia	[Hospital admission and mortality causes of HIV patients in a third level hospital].	Our results emphasize the need of intensifying the HIV early diagnosis as well as Pneumocystis jirovecii primary prophylaxis. Insist on ART adherence from infectology follow-up appointment and pharmacy care consultations, educate clinics on ART treatment prescription during hospital admission as well as requesting viral and CD4 lymphocytes loads to every HIV admitted patients.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31310085	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310085	HIV
Tropical medicine & international health : TM & IH	Decreased risk of HIV-associated TB during antiretroviral therapy expansion in rural Eswatini from 2009 to 2016: a cohort and population-based analysis.	This high HIV-TB prevalence setting experienced a rapid decline in TB notifications, most pronounced in PLHIV. Achievements in HIV-TB programing were likely contributing factors. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310029	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310029	HIV
Sociology of health & illness	The becoming-methadone-body: on the onto-politics of health intervention translations.	In this paper, we reflect on health intervention translations as matters of their implementation practices. Our case is methadone treatment, an intervention promoted globally for treating opioid dependence and preventing HIV among people who inject drugs. Tracing methadone's translations in high-security prisons in the Kyrgyz Republic, we notice the multiple methadones made possible, what these afford, and the onto-political effects they make. We work with the idea of the 'becoming-methadone-body' to trace the making-up of methadone treatment and its effects as an intra-action of human and nonhuman substances and bodies. Methadone's embodied effects flow beyond the mere psycho-activity of substances incorporating individual bodies, to material highs and lows incorporating the governing practices of prisoner society. The methadone-in-practice of prisoner society is altogether different to that imagined as being in translation as an intervention of HIV prevention and opioid treatment, and has material agency as a practice of societal governance. Heroin also emerges as an actor in these relations. Our analysis troubles practices of 'evidence-based' intervention and 'implementation science' in the health field, by arguing for a move towards 'evidence-making' intervention approaches. Noticing the onto-politics of health intervention translations invites speculation on how intervening might be done differently.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310008	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310008	HIV
Current HIV research	Performance of a Modified In-house HIV-1 Avidity Assay among a Cohort of Newly Diagnosed HIV-1 Infected Individuals and the Effect of ART on Maturation of HIV-1 Specific Antibodies.	This modified in-house antibody avidity assay is an inexpensive method to detect recent HIV-1 infection. ART demonstrated significant effect on HIV-1 antibody avidity owing to changes in viral kinetics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31309891	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309891	HIV
Pharmaceutical statistics	Random effects models for estimation of the probability and time to progression of a continuous biomarker.	Biomarkers play a key role in the monitoring of disease progression. The time taken for an individual to reach a biomarker exceeding or lower than a meaningful threshold is often of interest. Due to the inherent variability of biomarkers, persistence criteria are sometimes included in the definitions of progression, such that only two consecutive measurements above or below the relevant threshold signal that "true" progression has occurred. In previous work, a novel approach was developed, which allowed estimation of the time to threshold using the parameters from a linear mixed model where the residual variance was assumed to be pure measurement error. In this paper, we extend this methodology so that serial correlation can be accommodated. Assuming that the Markov property holds and applying the chain rule of probabilities, we found that the probability of progression at each timepoint can be expressed simply as the product of conditional probabilities. The methodology is applied to a cohort of HIV positive individuals, where the time to reach a CD4 count threshold is estimated. The second application we present is based on a study on abdominal aortic aneurysms, where the time taken for an individual to reach a diameter exceeding 55 mm is studied. We observed that erroneously ignoring the residual correlation when it is strong may result in substantial overestimation of the time to threshold. The estimated probability of the biomarker reaching a threshold of interest, expected time to threshold, and confidence intervals are presented for selected patients in both applications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309691	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309691	HIV
Addiction (Abingdon, England)	Supervised Consumption Sites: A Nuanced Assessment of the Causal Evidence.	The causal evidence for favorable outcomes of supervised consumption sites (SCS) is minimal, but there appears to be little basis for concern about adverse effects. This raises the question of how context and priors can affect how high the bar is set when deciding whether to endorse SCS. The literature also understates distinctions and nuances that need to be appreciated to have a rich understanding of how a range of stakeholders should interpret and apply that evidence to a variety of decisions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309637	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309637	HIV
Drugs	Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis for HIV Prevention in Women: Current Status and Future Directions.	Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is a promising intervention to prevent HIV acquisition, with benefits both to the individual and to population-level health. PrEP is an opportunity to complement ongoing public health efforts to eliminate HIV. For women, PrEP can also serve as a gateway to access sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services. Clinical efficacy of PrEP was initially reported in women using a 1% tenofovir vaginal gel in 2010, followed by an efficacy trial of oral PrEP using TDF/FTC in men who have sex with men (MSM). Since then, further trials have reported efficacy in oral PrEP containing tenofovir in women and heterosexual men, while the subsequent trials for women using tenofovir gel reported no efficacy, stemming from difficulties in achieving adequate adherence. In an effort to offer women additional choices to oral PrEP, alternative modalities are being tested in clinical research, including long-acting injectable formulations and intra-vaginal rings. In 2015, a meta-analysis of clinic trials and open-label extension studies led to the World Health Organization (WHO) strongly recommending the provision of oral PrEP containing tenofovir for any person at substantial risk of HIV infection, irrespective of gender or population group. Currently, PrEP services for women around the world, including those who are either pregnant or breastfeeding, remain limited. Outside sub-Saharan Africa, most PrEP programmes are focused on MSM. South Africa, Kenya, and the USA have the greatest utilization of oral PrEP by women. Yet, since 2012, of the estimated > 300,000 people globally who have initiated PrEP, a minority are women. In this narrative review, we examine the most recent literature on clinical and implementation PrEP research among women. We highlight the high burden of disease related to common sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in women, and the opportunity to integrate PrEP and other HIV prevention services, STI case management, and family planning services, as part of a more robust package of SRH services. Raising awareness on PrEP amongst women and their healthcare providers, minimizing gaps in access, and ensuring adherence and persistence of PrEP during periods of risk are critical issues if PrEP can have a meaningful impact on reducing HIV incidence in women globally.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31309457	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309457	HIV
Archives of sexual behavior	Risky Sexual Behaviors and Associated Factors Among College Students in Lusaka, Zambia.	Risky sexual behaviors are important factors driving the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Although Zambia experiences a high HIV prevalence, especially among youth, there is a dearth of information regarding risky sexual behaviors among young adults. Therefore, we investigated the prevalence and associated factors of risky sexual behaviors among college students in Lusaka, Zambia. A cross-sectional study was conducted in February 2017 among 427 college students at the University of Zambia. Participants reported their sexual behaviors, sexual attitudes, and lifestyle using self-administered questionnaires. Multinomial logistic regression models were employed to assess potential determinants of risky sexual behaviors. Among the 205 students who reported ever having sex, 148 (72.2%) engaged in risky sexual behaviors in the last 12 months. Participants who were older (OR 1.30, 95% CI 1.12-1.51), engaged in low physical activity (OR 2.25, 95% CI 1.05-4.84), and reported liberal sexual attitudes (OR 1.88, 95% CI 1.02-3.47) were more likely to engage in any risky sexual behavior, while frequent alcohol use (OR 8.38, 95% CI 4.60-15.27) and suicide attempts (OR 6.42, 95% CI 2.03-20.29) predicted multiple risky sexual behaviors. In conclusion, this study indicates that Zambian college students' risky sexual behaviors are associated with multiple behavioral health risks. Future research should consider using a multiple-behavior change intervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309429	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309429	HIV
Journal of neurovirology	Polymorphisms in CAMKK2 associate with susceptibility to sensory neuropathy in HIV patients treated without stavudine.	HIV-associated sensory neuropathy (HIV-SN) is a debilitating neurological complication of HIV infection potentiated by the antiretroviral drug stavudine. While stavudine is no longer used, HIV-SN now affects around 15% of HIV+ Indonesians. Here, we investigate whether polymorphisms within the P2X-block (P2X4R, P2X7R, CAMKK2) and/or ANAPC5 mark susceptibility to HIV-SN in this setting. As polymorphisms in these genes associated with HIV-SN in African HIV patients receiving stavudine, the comparison can identify mechanisms independent of stavudine. HIV patients who had never used stavudine (n = 202) attending clinics in Jakarta were screened for neuropathy using the AIDS Clinical Trials Group Brief Peripheral Neuropathy Screen. Open-array technology was used to type 48 polymorphisms spanning the four genes. Haplotypes were derived for each gene using fastPHASE. Haplogroups were constructed with median-joining methods. Multivariable models optimally predicting HIV-SN were based on factors achieving p < 0.2 in bivariate analyses. Minor alleles of three co-inherited polymorphisms in CAMKK2 (rs7975295*C, rs1560568*A, rs1132780*T) associated with a reduced prevalence of HIV-SN individually and after adjusting for lower CD4 T cell count and viremia (p = 0.0002, pseudo R	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309408	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309408	HIV
AIDS and behavior	A Pilot Study of a Mobile App to Support HIV Antiretroviral Therapy Adherence Among Men Who Have Sex with Men Who Use Stimulants.	APP+ is a theoretically-grounded mobile app intervention to improve antiretroviral (ART) adherence among men who have sex with men (MSM) who use stimulants. We assessed the feasibility and acceptability of APP+ in a six-month randomized controlled trial among a national sample of 90 MSM recruited online; secondarily, we examined changes in self-reported ART adherence by study arm. Retention at the final assessment was 82%, and acceptability ratings were comparable to other technology-based interventions. MSM in the APP+ group reported higher self-reported percentage ART adherence in the past 30 days at the four-month timepoint compared to a no-treatment control group (89.0% vs. 77.2%). However, once access to the app was removed after month four, group differences in ART adherence diminished by month six. APP+ may be a potentially promising intervention approach for MSM living with HIV who use stimulants but would require enhancements to optimize acceptability and demonstrate more sustained effects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309348	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309348	HIV
Current treatment options in cardiovascular medicine	Conceptualizing the Risks of Coronary Heart Disease and Heart Failure Among People Aging with HIV: Sex-Specific Considerations.	Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is emerging as a major threat to healthy aging among people with HIV (PHIV). PHIV face heightened risks for coronary heart disease (CHD)/myocardial infarction (MI) and heart failure (HF), fueled by systemic immune activation and by metabolic dysregulation. Women with HIV (WHIV) evidence unique patterns of vascular and myocardial pathology as compared to men with HIV (MHIV). These patterns include a predilection to microvascular dysfunction and type II MI, as well as a penchant for diastolic dysfunction and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). Investigations are underway to understand how advanced reproductive aging among WHIV influences systemic immune activation and metabolic dysregulation en route to these CVD phenotypes. A key goal is to identify targeted CVD prevention strategies relevant to WHIV, particularly as efficacious treatment approaches to type II MI and HFpEF are lacking.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31309321	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309321	HIV
Applied microbiology and biotechnology	Identification of RoCYP01 (CYP716A155) enables construction of engineered yeast for high-yield production of betulinic acid.	Betulinic acid (BA) and its derivatives possess potent pharmacological activity against cancer and HIV. As with many phytochemicals, access to BA is limited by the requirement for laborious extraction from plant biomass where it is found in low amounts. This might be alleviated by metabolically engineering production of BA into an industrially relevant microbe such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae (yeast), which requires complete elucidation of the corresponding biosynthetic pathway. However, while cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) that can oxidize lupeol into BA have been previously identified from the CYP716A subfamily, these generally do not seem to be specific to such biosynthesis and, in any case, have not been shown to enable high-yielding metabolic engineering. Here RoCYP01 (CYP716A155) was identified from the BA-producing plant Rosmarinus officinalis (rosemary) and demonstrated to effectively convert lupeol into BA, with strong correlation of its expression and BA accumulation. This was further utilized to construct a yeast strain that yields > 1 g/L of BA, providing a viable route for biotechnological production of this valuable triterpenoid.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309269	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309269	HIV
Science advances	Control of TLR7-mediated type I IFN signaling in pDCs through CXCR4 engagement-A new target for lupus treatment.	Type I interferons are highly potent cytokines essential for self-protection against tumors and infections. Deregulations of type I interferon signaling are associated with multiple diseases that require novel therapeutic options. Here, we identified the small molecule, IT1t, a previously described CXCR4 ligand, as a highly potent inhibitor of Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7)-mediated inflammation. IT1t inhibits chemical (R848) and natural (HIV) TLR7-mediated inflammation in purified human plasmacytoid dendritic cells from blood and human tonsils. In a TLR7-dependent lupus-like model, in vivo treatment of mice with IT1t drives drastic reduction of both systemic inflammation and anti-double-stranded DNA autoantibodies and prevents glomerulonephritis. Furthermore, IT1t controls inflammation, including interferon α secretion, in resting and stimulated cells from patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Our findings highlight a groundbreaking immunoregulatory property of CXCR4 signaling that opens new therapeutic perspectives in inflammatory settings and autoimmune diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309143	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309143	HIV
Gynecologic oncology reports	Cervical cancer in Tanzania: A systematic review of current challenges in six domains.	Cervical cancer is the most common cancer in Tanzania. After excluding human immunodeficiency virus, lower respiratory infections, malaria, diarrheal diseases, and tuberculosis, cervical cancer kills more women than any other form of illness in the country. Unfortunately, Tanzania has a low doctor-to-patient ratio (1:50,000) and nearly 7000 women die each year from this disease. The clinical problem is further magnified by the country's lack of resources and prevailing poverty, sporadic cervical cancer screening, prevalence of high-risk oncogenic human papillomavirus subtypes, and relatively high rates of human immunodeficiency virus co-infection. In recent years, addressing the cervical cancer problem has become a priority for the Tanzanian government. In this systematic review of 39 peer-reviewed publications that appeared in the PubMed/MEDLINE (NCBI) database from 2013 to 2018, we synthesize the growing body of literature to capture current trends in Tanzania's evolving cervical cancer landscape. Six domains were identified, including risk factors, primary prevention, barriers to screening, treatment, healthcare worker education, and sustainability. In addition to traditional risk factors associated with sexual behavior, acetowhite changes observed during visual inspection of the cervix with acetic acid, lower education, rural setting, and HIV positivity also have a noteworthy clinical impact.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31309135	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309135	HIV
BioMed research international	Molecular and Clinical Profiles of Human Pegivirus Type 1 Infection in Individuals Living with HIV-1 in the Extreme South of Brazil.	Human pegivirus type 1 (HPgV-1) infection has been associated with a beneficial effect on the prognosis of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-coinfected individuals. However, the mechanisms involved in this protection are not yet fully elucidated. To date, circulating HPgV-1 genotypes in HIV-1-infected individuals have not yet been identified in the extreme south of Brazil. The present study aimed to determine the genotypic circulation of HPgV-1 and the influence of HPgV-1 status and persistence time on the evolution of HIV-1 infection. A retrospective cohort of 110 coinfected individuals was analyzed. Samples were subjected to viral RNA extraction, cDNA synthesis, nested PCR, and genotyping. Genotypes 1 (2.8%), 2 (47.9% of subtype 2a and 42.3% of subtype 2b), and 3 (7%) were identified. In antiretroviral treatment-naïve subjects HPgV-1 subtype 2b was associated with lower HIV-1 viral load (VL) rates (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309117	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309117	HIV
African journal of laboratory medicine	Seroprevalence of hepatitis B virus co-infection among HIV-1-positive patients in North-Central Nigeria: The urgent need for surveillance.	We report the seroprevalence of hepatitis B surface antigen among HIV-positive patients at a clinic in North-Central Nigeria. Screening for hepatitis B virus was based on serological markers. Alanine aminotransferase levels and CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts were compared between patients. The study showed that 9.2% were positive for hepatitis B surface antigen with significant differences between alanine aminotransferase levels of patients with and without hepatitis B virus. We recommend a national surveillance system to monitor control efforts.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31309044	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309044	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	HIV testing at birth: Are we getting it right?	The majority of HIV-exposed infants received a PCR test at birth; however, the clinic is below the national target (90%) for HIV testing. A record-keeping system of infants' visits does not exist at MUCPP CHC, making it impossible to determine whether HIV-positive infants were started on antiretroviral treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308971	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308971	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	Outcomes of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in HIV-infected patients when using systemic steroids and/or intravenous immunoglobulins in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa.	HIV-infected SJS and TEN patients were treated in a tertiary dermatology ward with a treatment plan of skin care, and a combination of systemic corticosteroids and IVIG respectively had a survival rate of 97%.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308970	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308970	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	Factors influencing the confidence and knowledge of nurses prescribing antiretroviral treatment in a rural and urban district in the Western Cape province.	Training, mentorship and clinical practice experience are associated with knowledge and confidence. Recommendations include the strengthening of current training and mentoring and ensuring that NIMART-trained nurses are provided with regular updates and sufficient opportunities for clinical practice.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308969	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308969	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	'At this [	A theory-based understanding provides valuable lessons towards the adaptive implementation of the adherence club intervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308968	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308968	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	Peripartum HIV infection in very low birth weight infants fed 'raw' mother's own milk.	rMOM, in the presence of infant prophylaxis, was a safe feeding option for HIV-exposed VLBW infants. It should be strongly considered for these infants, as rMOM likely provides additional maternal and child benefits.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308967	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308967	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	Self-reported risky sexual practices among adolescents and young adults in Botswana.	Self-reported risky sexual practices of adolescents and young adults in Botswana differed significantly between males and females. Gender-specific risky sexual practices highlight the importance of developing tailored HIV prevention programming.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308965	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308965	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	A case report of untreatable HIV infection in Harare, Zimbabwe.	This is the first documented case of multiclass resistance to the four available ART classes in Zimbabwe. The development and transmission of multiclass HIV drug resistance in resource limited settings has potential to undo the gains of national ART programs. There is need to ensure optimum adherence to ART even in the era of DTG.	2019	eng	Case Reports	South Africa	31308964	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308964	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	Cognitive and behavioural determinants of multiple sexual partnerships and condom use in South Africa: Results of a national survey.	Cognitive and behavioural factors were found to be predictors of risky sexual behaviours for HIV. This highlights the importance of considering personal perception and reasoning when attempting to understand and influence an individual's sexual behaviour. This could be done through enhancing awareness of HIV risk in the general population and by influencing cognitive behaviour change through community mobilisation, advocacy and creating activities to improve self-esteem.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308963	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308963	HIV
Southern African journal of HIV medicine	Vaginal practices among women at risk for HIV acquisition in Soweto, South Africa.	Despite the high incidence of HIV in our setting, VP are still common and are associated with other behavioural risks for HIV. Further study is needed to assess whether clinician education may reduce VP and therefore should be included in HIV risk reduction counselling.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31308962	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308962	HIV
The Pan African medical journal	Factors associated with unfavourable tuberculosis treatment outcomes in Lusaka, Zambia, 2015: a secondary analysis of routine surveillance data.	Unfavourable TB treatment outcomes were high in the selected facilities. We recommend special attention to TB patients who are > 59 years old, TB relapses and TB / HIV co-infected. The national TB programme should strengthen close monitoring of health facilities in increasing efforts aimed at evaluating all the outcomes. Studies are required to identify and test interventions aimed at improving treatment outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Uganda	31308862	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308862	HIV
Journal of HIV/AIDS & social services	Socioeconomic disparities associated with awareness, access, and usage of Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis among Latino MSM ages 21-30 in San Antonio, TX.	HIV continues to disproportionately affect Latino men who have sex with men (MSM) and disparities are even greater in the South. This study examines the implications of socioeconomic status (SES) associated with awareness, access, and usage of PrEP. Latino MSM (N=154) from San Antonio, TX completed a self-administered survey. Results revealed that PrEP uptake was significantly lower for low SES Latino MSM. PrEP related barriers included lack of awareness, stigmas, and side effects. Findings underscore the importance for a multi-systemic approach to enhance awareness and access of PrEP for Latino MSM with varying levels of SES in the South.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308833	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308833	HIV
HIV/AIDS (Auckland, N.Z.)	Undernutrition and associated factors among HIV-positive adult patients enrolled in antiretroviral therapy (ART) clinics in the Arba Minch area, southern Ethiopia.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308761	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308761	HIV
Ethnicity & disease	Development of a Natural Language Processing Algorithm to Identify and Evaluate Transgender Patients in Electronic Health Record Systems.	Our novel algorithm correctly identified transgender patients and provided important insights into health care utilization among this marginalized population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308617	HIV
Ethnicity & disease	Evaluating the Availability and Quality of HIV/AIDS Services and Supports for Individuals with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities.	We used a community-based participatory research (CBPR) framework to conduct a needs assessment of the availability and quality of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) services for persons with intellectual and developmental disabilities (PWIDD) in the Atlanta metropolitan area. We present the findings of a three-phase research project. Findings from the research informs organizations and policymakers on how to provide persons with disabilities better access to HIV/AIDS care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308616	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308616	HIV
Children and youth services review	"If the mother does not know, there is no way she can tell the adolescent to go for drugs": Challenges in promoting health and preventing transmission among pregnant and parenting Kenyan adolescents living with HIV.	Adolescents living with HIV (ALHIV) who are pregnant, or parenting, are an important but understudied group. This study explores the challenges in promoting the health of these adolescents and preventing onward transmission. We used existing semi-structured interview data from a 2014 study conducted among Kenyan ALHIV (ages 15-19), their family members, and local health staff to examine adolescent HIV-testing, disclosure, and treatment engagement, focusing on participants who were pregnant, had given birth, or had fathered a child. A total of 28 participant interviews were analyzed, including those conducted with nine ALHIV, four family members, and 15 HIV providers. Four adolescent participants were not in care at the time of their interview. Our analysis also included a transcript from a stakeholder meeting involving HIV providers and associated administrators, held to disseminate and garner feedback on, preliminary findings from the original study. Based on our analysis, adolescents frequently reported being alone during testing, experiencing fear and denial on receiving their results, and delaying disclosure to family and linkage to treatment. They also mentioned a lack of contraceptive counseling, with some reporting multiple pregnancies. Providers voiced misgivings and uncertainty about disclosing HIV diagnoses to minor adolescents without a family member present and reported severe shortages of personnel and resources to adequately serve ALHIV in rural clinics. These findings highlight gaps in services that limit adolescent engagement in HIV treatment prior to sexual debut and conceiving a child, and in PMTCT during and after pregnancy. Greater research attention is needed to address ALHIV reproductive health needs, improve linkage to HIV treatment, and prevent onward sexual transmission. Empirical ethics studies of current adolescent disclosure policies are also warranted to examine cultural and developmental appropriateness, and effectiveness in fostering support and engagement in HIV services.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308586	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308586	HIV
Nature immunology	CD4	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308542	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308542	HIV
Nature immunology	Altered differentiation is central to HIV-specific CD4	Dysfunction of virus-specific CD4	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308541	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308541	HIV
Scientific reports	HLA class II-Restricted CD8+ T cells in HIV-1 Virus Controllers.	A paradigm shifting study demonstrated that induction of MHC class E and II-restricted CD8+ T cells was associated with the clearance of SIV infection in rhesus macaques. Another recent study highlighted the presence of HIV-1-specific class II-restricted CD8+ T cells in HIV-1 patients who naturally control infection (virus controllers; VCs). However, questions regarding class II-restricted CD8+ T cells ontogeny, distribution across different HIV-1 disease states and their role in viral control remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the distribution and anti-viral properties of HLA-DRB1*0701 and DQB1*0501 class II-restricted CD8+ T cells in different HIV-1 patient cohorts; and whether class II-restricted CD8+ T cells represent a unique T cell subset. We show that memory class II-restricted CD8+ T cell responses were more often detectable in VCs than in chronically infected patients, but not in healthy seronegative donors. We also demonstrate that VC CD8+ T cells inhibit virus replication in both a class I- and class II-dependent manner, and that in two VC patients the class II-restricted CD8+ T cells with an anti-viral gene signature expressed both CD4+ and CD8+ T cell lineage-specific genes. These data demonstrated that anti-viral memory class II-restricted CD8+ T cells with hybrid CD4+ and CD8+ features are present during natural HIV-1 infection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308388	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308388	HIV
Journal of immunology (Baltimore, Md. : 1950)	Primary EBV Infection Induces an Acute Wave of Activated Antigen-Specific Cytotoxic CD4	CD4	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308093	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308093	HIV
The lancet. HIV	Efficacy and safety of dolutegravir-rilpivirine for maintenance of virological suppression in adults with HIV-1: 100-week data from the randomised, open-label, phase 3 SWORD-1 and SWORD-2 studies.	ViiV Healthcare and Janssen Pharmaceutica.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307948	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307948	HIV
The lancet. HIV	Long-acting or extended-release antiretroviral products for HIV treatment and prevention in infants, children, adolescents, and pregnant and breastfeeding women: knowledge gaps and research priorities.	Antiretroviral agents with long-acting properties have potential to improve treatment outcomes substantially for people living with HIV. In November 2017, the Long acting/Extended Release Antiretroviral Resource Program (LEAP) convened a workshop with the aim of shaping the research agenda and promoting early development of long-acting or extended release products for key populations: pregnant and lactating women, children aged up to 10 years, and adolescents aged 10-19 years. Goals included strategies and principles to ensure that the needs of children, adolescents, and pregnant and lactating women are considered when developing long-acting formulations. Research should focus not only on how best to transition long-acting products to these populations, but also on early engagement across sectors and among stakeholders. A parallel rather than sequential approach is needed when establishing adult, adolescent, and paediatric clinical trials and seeking regulatory approval. Pregnant and lactating women should be included in adult clinical trials. Adolescent-friendly trial design is needed to improve recruitment and retention of young people.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31307946	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307946	HIV
Archives de pediatrie : organe officiel de la Societe francaise de pediatrie	Second-line antiretroviral therapy failure and characterization of HIV-1 drug resistance patterns in children in Mali.	This study demonstrated that LPV/r remains active in most patients after second-line ART failure. In children whose second-line ART fails, particular attention should be paid to their ART and adherence history when considering the next treatment option.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31307909	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307909	HIV
The Lancet. Infectious diseases	Intermittent preventive treatment with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine and risk of malaria following cessation in young Ugandan children: a double-blind, randomised, controlled trial.	Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307883	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307883	HIV
Analytica chimica acta	Ratiometric fluorescence monitoring of α-glucosidase activity based on oxidase-like property of MnO	In recent years, α-glucosidase (α-Glu) inhibitor has been widely used in clinic for diabetic and HIV therapy. Although different systems have been constructed for sensitive and selective detection of α-Glu and screening its inhibitor, the method based on ratiometric fluorescence for α-glucosidase inhibitor screening remains poorly investigated. Herein, we constructed a new MnO	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307713	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307713	HIV
BMC research notes	Mortality rate and predictors of time to death in children with severe acute malnutrition treated in Felege-Hiwot Referral Hospital Bahir Dar, Northwest Ethiopia.	A total of 401 children with severe acute malnutrition who were admitted to therapeutic feeding units from September 2012 to January 2016 were included in the study. The incidence of death rate was 8.47% (95% CI 6.11%, 11.65%). The median time to death was 3 days (Inter Quartile Range of 4 days). Children's of age > 24 months (AHR = 0.27; 95% CI 0.1, 0.73), fully vaccinated status (AHR = 0.16; 95% CI 0.07, 0.36), HIV infection (AHR = 3.82; 95% CI 1.3, 11.15) and congestive heart failure (AHR = 6.98; 95% CI 2.42, 20.09) were significant predictors of mortality among children admitted for severe acute malnutrition.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307556	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307556	HIV
BMC research notes	Premarital sexual practice and associated factors among adolescents in the refugee camps in Tigray, northern Ethiopia.	The prevalence of premarital sexual practice was 47.6% [95% CI (43.3%, 51.9%)]. The age (mean ± SD) of the study participants was 17.4 ± 2.71 (15-24 years) and 68.8% of them were males. Being in the age group 14-19 years [AOR = 4.50, 95% CI (2.29-8.84)] or 20-24 years [AOR = 9.76, CI (4.58-20.82)], living with friends [AOR = 5.24, 95% CI (2.28-12.05)] or alone [AOR = 5.72, 95% CI (2.69-12.19)], being in primary school [AOR = 6.93, 95% CI (3.08-15.57)] or college [AOR = 4.33, CI (1.44-13.02)], getting pocket money [AOR = 4.14, 95% CI (2.31-7.41)], parents being either divorced [AOR = 5.11, 95% CI (2.42-10.80)] or widowed [AOR = 3.52, 95% CI (1.69-7.33)], alcohol consumption [AOR = 1.99, 95% CI (1.20-3.38)] were independent predictors of premarital sexual practice among the adolescents.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307553	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307553	HIV
BMC research notes	Second-line antiretroviral therapy regimen change among adults living with HIV in Amhara region: a multi-centered retrospective follow-up study.	A total of 897 records of patients were analyzed. The overall rate of initial second-line drug regimen change was 24.2 per 100 person years. The rate of regimen change was decreased for patients with formal education (HR: 0.77, 95% CI 0.61-0.97), under WHO clinical stage-III (HR: 0.57, 95% CI 0.45-0.73), and WHO clinical stage-IV (HR: 0.64, 95% CI 0.43-0.96). Patients who were taking CPT (HR: 2.05, 95% CI 1.45-2.89) had an increased rate of regimen change. Furthermore, the rate of regimen change was decreased for patients who were switched to second-line treatment due to virological failure (HR: 0.36, 95% CI 0.25-0.53), and due to drug toxicity (HR: 0.48, 95% CI 0.28-0.81). Therefore, addressing significant predictors to maximize the durability on the initial regimen among ART clients is essential.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307513	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307513	HIV
BMC public health	Increasing retention of HIV positive pregnant and breastfeeding mothers on option-b plus by upgrading and providing full time HIV services at a lower health facility in rural Uganda.	This study was retrospectively registered with the Uganda National Council for Science and Technology (UNCST), registration receipt number 10961 on the 9th March, 2018.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307455	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307455	HIV
Clinical laboratory	Detection of Neutralizing Antibodies in HIV-1 Patients on Antiretroviral Treatment for Over Ten Years.	We thus confirm the possibility of production of neutralizing antibodies in patients infected for over ten years on ART, and it is possible over time of the improvement of HIV-1 potent neutralizing activity associated with viremia and immune reconstruction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31307159	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307159	HIV
Medicine	Erratum: Factors associated with syphilis incidence in the HIV-infected in the era of highly active antiretrovirals: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000005849.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305636	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305636	HIV
Addiction (Abingdon, England)	Cost-Effectiveness of Scaling Up HCV Prevention and Treatment in the United States for People Who Inject Drugs.	Hepatitis C screening and treatment for people who inject drugs, combined with medication-assisted treatment and syringe-service programs, is a cost-effective strategy for reducing hepatitis C burden in the United States.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307116	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307116	HIV
Intervirology	HIV-1 Integrase Resistance among Highly Antiretroviral Experienced Patients from Morocco.	This study demonstrated that INSTIs should be an excellent alternative for salvage therapy in highly experienced patients with multidrug resistant viruses in Morocco.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31307042	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307042	HIV
Journal of affective disorders	Test of a clinical model of poor physical health and suicide: The role of depression, psychosocial stress, interpersonal conflict, and panic.	These findings highlight the importance of considering interpersonal factors as potential mediators in the relationship between poor physical health, mental illness, and suicide. Clinically, the impact of an active major depressive episode on an individual who is struggling with a serious physical illness may be strongly predictive of suicidal ideation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306991	HIV
Protein science : a publication of the Protein Society	Circular Zymogens of Human Ribonuclease 1.	The endogenous production of enzymes as zymogens provides a means to control catalytic activities. Here, we describe the heterologous production of ribonuclease 1 (RNase 1), which is the most prevalent secretory ribonuclease in humans, as a zymogen. In folded RNase 1, the N and C termini flank the enzymic active site. By using intein-mediated cis-splicing, we created circular proteins in which access to the active site of RNase 1 is obstructed by an amino-acid sequence that is recognized by the HIV-1 protease. Installing a sequence that does not perturb the RNase 1 fold led to only modest inactivation. In contrast, the ancillary truncation of residues from each terminus led to a substantial decrease in the catalytic activity of the zymogen with the maintenance of thermostability. For optimized zymogens, activation by HIV-1 protease led to a > 10	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306518	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306518	HIV
PLoS pathogens	Similarities and differences between native HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein trimers and stabilized soluble trimer mimetics.	The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer is located on the surface of the virus and is the target of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs). Recombinant native-like soluble Env trimer mimetics, such as SOSIP trimers, have taken a central role in HIV-1 vaccine research aimed at inducing bNAbs. We therefore performed a direct and thorough comparison of a full-length unmodified Env trimer containing the transmembrane domain and the cytoplasmic tail, with the sequence matched soluble SOSIP trimer, both based on an early Env sequence (AMC011) from an HIV+ individual that developed bNAbs. The structures of the full-length AMC011 trimer bound to either bNAb PGT145 or PGT151 were very similar to the structures of SOSIP trimers. Antigenically, the full-length and SOSIP trimers were comparable, but in contrast to the full-length trimer, the SOSIP trimer did not bind at all to non-neutralizing antibodies, most likely as a consequence of the intrinsic stabilization of the SOSIP trimer. Furthermore, the glycan composition of full-length and SOSIP trimers was similar overall, but the SOSIP trimer possessed slightly less complex and less extensively processed glycans, which may relate to the intrinsic stabilization as well as the absence of the membrane tether. These data provide insights into how to best use and improve membrane-associated full-length and soluble SOSIP HIV-1 Env trimers as immunogens.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306470	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306470	HIV
PloS one	Correction: A randomised controlled trial of a telephone administered brief HIV risk reduction intervention amongst men who have sex with men prescribed post-exposure prophylaxis for HIV after sexual exposure in the UK: Project PEPSE.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0216855.].	2019	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31306465	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306465	HIV
PloS one	Decreasing HIV transmissions to African American women through interventions for men living with HIV post-incarceration: An agent-based modeling study.	Interventions to improve care engagement and decrease sexual risk behaviors post-incarceration for men living with HIV have the potential to decrease HIV incidence within African American heterosexual networks.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306464	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306464	HIV
PloS one	Multinomial modelling of TB/HIV co-infection yields a robust predictive signature and generates hypotheses about the HIV+TB+ disease state.	By explicitly including distinct disease states within the machine learning analysis framework, we developed a compact and highly diagnostic signature that simultaneously discriminates multiple disease states associated with Mtb/HIV co-infection. Examination of the expression patterns of signature genes suggests mechanisms underlying the unique inflammatory conditions associated with active TB in the presence of HIV. In particular, we observed that dysregulation of CD8+ effector T-cell and NK-cell associated genes may be an important feature of Mtb/HIV co-infection.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306460	HIV
The Pediatric infectious disease journal	Anti-NMDA-receptor Encephalitis in an Adolescent With HIV Infection and Review of the Literature.	Anti-N-Methyl-D-Aspartate-receptor encephalitis is the most common antibody-mediated autoimmune encephalopathy. A HIV-infected African boy presented with subacute psychosis as manifestation of anti-N-Methyl-D-Aspartate-receptor encephalitis. Intravenous immunoglobulin and corticosteroids induced complete remission. Although this is the first pediatric case described, 5 adult cases have been reported. The role of HIV in the etiology of this autoimmune condition requires further exploration.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306397	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306397	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Low level viremia and virologic failure in persons with HIV infection treated with antiretroviral therapy.	LLV between 201-500 was associated with virologic failure, as was LLV between 51-200, particularly among ART experienced patients. Patients with LLV below the current DHHS threshold for virologic failure (persistent viremia ≥ 200) may require more intensive monitoring because of increased risk for virologic failure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306175	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306175	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Viro-immunological outcomes after thirteen-valent pneumococcal vaccination in HIV-1 infected subjects on stable virological suppression.	Viral blips and confirmed virological failures were rarely observed in patients on stable virological suppression in the first 6 months following vaccination with PCV13. Additionally, no decrease of CD4 and CD4/CD8 ratio was recorded.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306174	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306174	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	A pharmacokinetic and pharmacogenetic evaluation of contraceptive implants and antiretroviral therapy among women in Kenya and Uganda.	Concomitant use of efavirenz significantly reduces levonorgestrel or etonogestrel concentrations by 61% and 49%, respectively, compared to no ART use. We also report allelic variants in hepatic enzymes that influenced the extent of the observed drug-interaction between progestins and efavirenz.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306173	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306173	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Delays in fast track ART initiation and reasons for not starting treatment among eligible children in Eastern Cape, South Africa.	We report data from an observational cohort of South African children living with HIV <12 years of age eligible for fast track ART (rapid) initiation. We found that less than half those eligible for rapid ART initiation based on immunologic and disease status started treatment within one week.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306172	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306172	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Long-term safety and vaccine-induced seropositivity in healthy volunteers from HIV vaccine trials: a French cohort study.	Volunteers showed a sustained high commitment. No long-term safety alert was identified during the postvaccine follow-up. Participating in vaccine trials did not increase risky behaviors for HIV infection. Vaccine-induced seropositivity may persist for more than 23 years after receiving rgp160.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306171	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306171	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Risk of HIV-1 acquisition among South African women using a variety of contraceptive methods in a prospective study.	Among women at risk of HIV-1 infections in South Africa, we found no statistically significant differences in HIV-1 incidence by contraceptive method. Implants had the lowest point estimate for HIV-1 incidence, and IUDs had risk comparable with injectable methods in multivariate models. Large, prospective studies are needed to define better the relative HIV-1 risks across different contraceptive methods.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306167	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306167	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Hyperglycemia and insulin function in antiretroviral treatment-naive HIV patients in Ethiopia: a potential new entity of diabetes in HIV?	ART-naive Ethiopian HIV patients had a high prevalence of prediabetes and diabetes, with a poor agreement between HbA1c and OGTT. Diabetes was associated with inflammation, but not with adiposity and age. Diabetes was linked to insulin deficiency, rather than insulin resistance, which may represent a different entity than type 1 and 2 diabetes. This has implications for choice of drugs, when managing diabetes in African HIV patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306166	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306166	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Suboptimal stimulation by weak agonist epitope variants does not drive dysfunction of HIV-1-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte clones.	Our data explore the hypothesis that poorly recognized epitope variants not only facilitate HIV-1 evasion of CTL recognition, but also induce CTL dysfunction through suboptimal signaling causing anergy. However, the results do not suggest that suboptimal signaling induces anergy (or exhaustion or apoptosis), indicating that the major role of CTL epitope variation is likely viral escape.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306165	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306165	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Elevated indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase enzyme activity in a novel mouse model of HIV-associated atherosclerosis.	These results indicate that Tg26/ApoE serve as a new mouse model for HIV-induced atherogenesis, and aid in understanding the role of tryptophan catabolism in the pathogenesis of HIV atherosclerosis/CVD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306164	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306164	HIV
The new microbiologica	Uncommon testicular localization of Disseminated TB: a case report from Mozambique.	Tuberculosis (TB) of the testicle is a rarely reported and poorly described disease localization. There are no well-defined clinical features suggestive of testicular TB, which makes the diagnosis difficult to establish, especially in low-income settings like Mozambique, where TB is endemic and often associated with HIV-infection; both considered leading causes of death worldwide. We reported the case of a 45-year-old male, HIV positive, naïve to antiretroviral treatment, admitted to the Department of Medicine of the Central Hospital of Beira to investigate chronic enlargement of the testicles.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31305938	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305938	HIV
The new microbiologica	SLAM Project - Second-Level Diagnostic Assessment: Multidisciplinary approach to HIV Patients.	The aim of the study is to propose a multidimensional second-level diagnostic assessment to allow follow-up in the event physicians observe the presence of risk factors and/or active comorbidities in HIV-infected patients. To develop our proposal, we chose the Delphi method that has been used for about 30 years in the healthcare field. The CISAI Group (Coordinamento Italiano per lo Studio dell'Allergia in Infezione da HIV) conducted this study. The first phase of the study provided identification of the questionnaire for secondlevel diagnostic assessment of HIV-infected patients. From March to July 2018 the questionnaire was submitted to 48 experts from 10 Italian HIVdedicated sites. The questionnaire consisted of 102 items divided into 7 survey areas. The results can be summarized as follows: infectious disease diagnostics, 18 items reached agreement in 9 cases; osteoporosis diagnostics 12 items with 3 agreements; metabolic and cardiovascular diagnostics 13 items with 4 agreements; nephrology diagnostics 19 items with 8 agreements; hepatology diagnostics 12 items with 9 agreements; CNS diagnostics: 18 items with 7 agreements; psychological diagnostics and quality of life assessment (QoL) 10 items with no agreement. If these considerations are confirmed in required discussions and in-depth analyses, they will be able to produce an important indication in the drafting of national guidelines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31305935	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305935	HIV
The new microbiologica	Factors associated with vitamin D deficiency in HIV-1 infected patients on combination antiretroviral therapy: a case-control study.	The aim of our study was to assess risk factors associated with vitamin D deficiency among HIV-1-infected patients on combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). A retrospective, case-control study was conducted to assess risk factors associated with vitamin D deficiency among HIV-1-infected adults on stable cART. Vitamin D deficiency was defined as 25-OH vitamin D concentration <30 ng/mL. A total of 195 patients (77% males, mean age 49.2 years) were enrolled into the study: 98 subjects with vitamin D deficiency (cases) and 97 with normal vitamin D serum concentration (controls). The mean serum concentration + standard deviation (SD) of vitamin D was 18.2 + 6.7 ng/mL among cases and 39.6 + 13.4 ng/mL among controls. Current cART including tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) (OR 1.65; 95% CI, 1.31 to 1.94), osteoporosis (OR 1.78; 95% CI, 1.25 to 2.09), males who have sex with males (MSM) risk category (OR 1.59; 95% CI, 1.19 to 2.21), chronic hepatitis C (OR 1.44; 95% CI, 1.17 to 1.86), previous or current cancer (OR 1.47; 95% CI, 1.13 to 1.79), metabolic syndrome (OR 2.57; 95% CI, 1.96 to 2.98), and hepatic steatosis (OR 1.59; 95% CI, 1.17 to 2.05) were significant associated with an increased risk of vitamin D deficiency. On the other hand, current CD4+ lymphocyte count >600 cells/mmc and current HIV RNA <20 copies/mL were significantly associated with a lower risk of vitamin D deficiency. In our case-control study, vitamin D deficiency is associated with TDF exposure, osteoporosis, and metabolic disturbances.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31305932	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305932	HIV
Advances in nutrition (Bethesda, Md.)	The Role of Zinc in Antiviral Immunity.	Zinc is an essential trace element that is crucial for growth, development, and the maintenance of immune function. Its influence reaches all organs and cell types, representing an integral component of approximately 10% of the human proteome, and encompassing hundreds of key enzymes and transcription factors. Zinc deficiency is strikingly common, affecting up to a quarter of the population in developing countries, but also affecting distinct populations in the developed world as a result of lifestyle, age, and disease-mediated factors. Consequently, zinc status is a critical factor that can influence antiviral immunity, particularly as zinc-deficient populations are often most at risk of acquiring viral infections such as HIV or hepatitis C virus. This review summarizes current basic science and clinical evidence examining zinc as a direct antiviral, as well as a stimulant of antiviral immunity. An abundance of evidence has accumulated over the past 50 y to demonstrate the antiviral activity of zinc against a variety of viruses, and via numerous mechanisms. The therapeutic use of zinc for viral infections such as herpes simplex virus and the common cold has stemmed from these findings; however, there remains much to be learned regarding the antiviral mechanisms and clinical benefit of zinc supplementation as a preventative and therapeutic treatment for viral infections.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305906	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305906	HIV
Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE	Identification of Nucleolar Factors During HIV-1 Replication Through Rev Immunoprecipitation and Mass Spectrometry.	The HIV-1 infectious cycle requires viral protein interactions with host factors to facilitate viral replication, packaging, and release. The infectious cycle further requires the formation of viral/host protein complexes with HIV-1 RNA to regulate the splicing and enable nucleocytoplasmic transport. The HIV-1 Rev protein accomplishes the nuclear export of HIV-1 mRNAs through multimerization with intronic cis-acting targets - the Rev response element (RRE). A nucleolar localization signal (NoLS) exists within the COOH-terminus of the Rev arginine-rich motif (ARM), allowing the accumulation of Rev/RRE complexes in the nucleolus. Nucleolar factors are speculated to support the HIV-1 infectious cycle through various other functions in addition to mediating mRNA-independent nuclear export and splicing. We describe an immunoprecipitation method of wild-type (WT) Rev in comparison to Rev nucleolar mutations (deletion and single-point Rev-NoLS mutations) in the presence of HIV-1 replication for mass spectrometry. Nucleolar factors implicated in the nucleocytoplasmic transport (nucleophosmin B23 and nucleolin C23), as well as cellular splicing factors, lose interaction with Rev in the presence of Rev-NoLS mutations. Various other nucleolar factors, such as snoRNA C/D box 58, are identified to lose interaction with Rev mutations, yet their function in the HIV-1 replication cycle remain unknown. The results presented here demonstrate the use of this approach for the identification of viral/host nucleolar factors that maintain the HIV-1 infectious cycle. The concepts used in this approach are applicable to other viral and disease models requiring the characterization of understudied pathways.	2019	eng	Video-Audio Media	United States	31305524	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305524	HIV
Clinical obstetrics and gynecology	Single-Tablet Combination Therapy for HIV Infection in Pregnancy.	Advances in the management of human immunodeficiency virus infection during pregnancy have led to improved maternal health and significant declines in rates of mother-to-child transmission of human immunodeficiency virus. A critical contributor to this success has been the development of better tolerated, safer, and more convenient antiretroviral medication regimens. Today, 12 fixed-dose, single-tablet combination antiretroviral regimens are available in the United States. These regimens are commonly used in nonpregnant individuals. However, because of altered pharmacokinetics of many drugs during pregnancy and concerns regarding short- and long-term fetal safety, few of these regimens are appropriate for routine use in pregnancy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305487	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305487	HIV
Medicine	Upper gastrointestinal bleeding caused by direct invasion of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma into the stomach in a patient with HIV infection: A case report.	Because of the high incidence of lymphoma in patients with HIV, if such patients complain of dyspepsia, epigastric soreness, or melena, malignant tumors, such as lymphomas or stomach cancers, should be suspected. As in this patient, doctors should be aware that intra-abdominal lymphoma can invade into the stomach wall and cause bleeding.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305432	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305432	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Recurrent posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome in an HIV-HCV coinfected liver transplant recipient.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305337	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305337	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Response to correspondence entitled: Perinatal HIV and response to vaccination.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305335	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305335	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Perinatal HIV and response to vaccination.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305334	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305334	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Long-term evolution of CD4+ cell count in patients under combined antiretroviral therapy.	cART initiation before CD4 cell count drops below 350 cells/μl is crucial for achieving normal CD4 levels. These findings underline the importance of timely diagnosis and cART initiation as the risk of both AIDS and non-AIDS-related morbidity/mortality remains increased in patients with incomplete CD4 recovery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305332	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305332	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Simplifying switch to second-line antiretroviral therapy in sub Saharan Africa: predicted effect of using a single viral load to define efavirenz-based first-line failure.	As a step towards reducing unnecessary mortality associated with delayed second-line ART switch, defining failure of first-line efavirenz-based regimens as a single viral load more than 1000 copies/ml should be considered.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305331	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305331	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Frailty in medically complex individuals with chronic HIV.	Neuropsychiatric illness increased odds of being frail on a predominantly physical/motoric measure, but only when symptomatic. Lack of association with asymptomatic impairment may reflect the importance of functional limitation to frailty, or possibly a unique resilience phenotype. Understanding why sex and symptomatic neuropsychiatric illness are associated with frailty will be important in managing HIV-associated morbidity in aging populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305330	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305330	HIV
AIDS (London, England)	Randomized study evaluating the efficacy and safety of switching from an an abacavir/lamivudine-based regimen to an elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide single-tablet regimen.	Switching to E/C/F/TAF was noninferior to continuing ABC/3TC plus a third agent for maintenance of HIV RNA suppression at Week 24. This study supports E/C/F/TAF as an efficacious and well tolerated option for participants switching from ABC/3TC-based regimens.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305329	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305329	HIV
The Journal of clinical investigation	Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus miRNAs suppress CASTOR1-mediated mTORC1 inhibition to promote tumorigenesis.	Cytosolic arginine sensor for mTORC1 subunits 1 and 2 (CASTOR1 and CASTOR2) inhibit the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) upon arginine deprivation. mTORC1 regulates cell proliferation, survival, and metabolism and is often dysregulated in cancers, indicating that cancer cells may regulate CASTOR1 and CASTOR2 to control mTORC1 signaling and promote tumorigenesis. mTORC1 is the most effective therapeutic target of Kaposi sarcoma, which is caused by infection with the Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV). Hence, KSHV-induced cellular transformation is a suitable model for investigating mTORC1 regulation in cancer cells. Currently, the mechanism of KSHV activation of mTORC1 in KSHV-induced cancers remains unclear. We showed that KSHV suppressed CASTOR1 and CASTOR2 expression to activate the mTORC1 pathway. CASTOR1 or CASTOR2 overexpression and mTOR inhibitors abolished cell proliferation and colony formation in soft agar of KSHV-transformed cells by attenuating mTORC1 activation. Furthermore, the KSHV-encoded miRNA miR-K4-5p, and probably miR-K1-5p, directly targeted CASTOR1 to inhibit its expression. Knockdown of miR-K1-5p and -K4-5p restored CASTOR1 expression and thereby attenuated mTORC1 activation. Overexpression of CASTOR1 or CASTOR2 and mTOR inhibitors abolished the activation of mTORC1 and growth transformation induced by pre-miR-K1 and -K4. Our results define the mechanism of KSHV activation of the mTORC1 pathway and establish the scientific basis for targeting this pathway to treat KSHV-associated cancers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305263	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305263	HIV
The Journal of clinical investigation	Persistent HIV-infected cells in cerebrospinal fluid are associated with poorer neurocognitive performance.	BACKGROUNDPersistence of HIV in sanctuary sites despite antiretroviral therapy (ART) presents a barrier to HIV remission and may affect neurocognitive function. We assessed HIV persistence in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and associations with inflammation and neurocognitive performance during long-term ART.METHODSParticipants enrolled in the AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) HIV Reservoirs Cohort Study (A5321) underwent concurrent lumbar puncture, phlebotomy, and neurocognitive assessment. Cell-associated HIV DNA and HIV RNA (CA-DNA, CA-RNA) were measured by quantitative PCR (qPCR). in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and in cell pellets from CSF. In CSF supernatant and blood plasma, cell-free HIV RNA was quantified by qPCR with single copy sensitivity, and inflammatory biomarkers were measured by enzyme immunoassay.RESULTSSixty-nine participants (97% male, median age 50 years, CD4 696 cells/mm3, plasma HIV RNA <100 copies/mL) were assessed after a median 8.6 years of ART. In CSF, cell-free RNA was detected in 4%, CA-RNA in 9%, and CA-DNA in 48% of participants (median level 2.1 copies/103 cells). Detection of cell-free CSF HIV RNA was associated with higher plasma HIV RNA (P = 0.007). CSF inflammatory biomarkers did not correlate with HIV persistence measures. Detection of CSF CA-DNA HIV was associated with worse neurocognitive outcomes including global deficit score (P = 0.005), even after adjusting for age and nadir CD4 count.CONCLUSIONHIV-infected cells persist in CSF in almost half of individuals on long-term ART, and their detection is associated with poorer neurocognitive performance.FUNDINGThis observational study, AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) HIV Reservoirs Cohort Study (A5321), was supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIAID and NIMH).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305262	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305262	HIV
The Journal of clinical investigation	Is successful HIV therapy a Pyrrhic victory for the brain?	Neurologic involvement of HIV remains an important concern for patients, physicians, and investigators. Catastrophic decline is rarely seen in patients on combination antiretroviral therapy (cART); however, neurological decline remains a critical clinical challenge. In this issue of the JCI, Spudich and associates investigated the status of HIV in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and revealed ongoing presence of HIV in the nervous system. Surprisingly, even in the face of optimal treatment, including suppressed HIV RNA, almost half of the patients investigated showed cell-associated HIV (CA-HIV) DNA in the CSF. Spudich et al. find that persistence of HIV in CSF cells is associated with lower performance on neurocognitive testing. These findings emphasize the need to consider a viral-associated mechanism as playing a significant and potentially ongoing role in HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305261	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305261	HIV
Population health management	Benchmarking HIV Quality Measures Across US Payer Types.	Despite advances in antiretroviral therapy (ART), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) remains a significant issue in the United States. Early diagnosis, continuous treatment access/adherence, and long-term care engagement help patients benefit fully from ART; however, a shortfall in care engagement remains, potentially leading to poorer health outcomes. This analysis benchmarks rates of health care quality and process measures to identify areas for improvement. This retrospective, claims-based, real-world cohort study assessed the percentage of prevalent (existing) and incident (newly diagnosed) patients with HIV with commercial or public health insurance meeting 4 National Quality Forum (NQF)-endorsed, 1 Pharmacy Quality Alliance (PQA), and 3 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) measures over a 4-year period. Most prevalent patients consistently met the NQF-endorsed prescribed ART and gaps in visits measures. Longer-term visit frequency measure rates were well below the 90% Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS target. Proportion of prevalent patients meeting each NQF-endorsed measure was maintained/increased with increasing age in 2015-2016. Substantially fewer incident patients than prevalent patients met NQF-endorsed measures across all measurement periods, particularly for visit frequency (32%-51%). PQA ART adherence was low (36%-73%). CDC receipt of care rates were high (83%-92%), whereas retention in care rates were low (67%-72%) among prevalent patients. For incident patients, linkage to care rates were consistently low (21%-44%). This study benchmarks current US HIV care engagement and highlights the need for improvement in early care engagement, ART adherence and long-term retention of care among patients with HIV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305206	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305206	HIV
Journal of neuroimaging : official journal of the American Society of Neuroimaging	Cerebral Multishell Diffusion Imaging Parameters are Associated with Blood Biomarkers of Disease Severity in HIV Infection.	In HIV-positive subjects, associations between biochemical and diffusion-MRI variables are found along the association fibers, which connect brain areas involved in memory formation, providing a possible interpretation for the neurobiological substrate underlying cognitive disturbances in HIV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304996	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304996	HIV
Journal of the American Heart Association	Classical Cardiovascular Risk Factors and HIV are Associated With Carotid Intima-Media Thickness in Adults From Sub-Saharan Africa: Findings From H3Africa AWI-Gen Study.	Background Studies on the determinants of carotid intima-media thickness ( CIMT ), a marker of sub-clinical atherosclerosis, mostly come from white, Asian, and diasporan black populations. We present CIMT data from sub-Saharan Africa, which is experiencing a rising burden of cardiovascular diseases and infectious diseases. Methods and Results The H3 (Human Hereditary and Health) in Africa's AWI-Gen (African-Wits-INDEPTH partnership for Genomic) study is a cross-sectional study conducted in adults aged 40 to 60 years from Burkina Faso, Kenya, Ghana, and South Africa. Cardiovascular disease risk and ultrasonography of the CIMT of right and left common carotids were measured. Multivariable linear and mixed-effect multilevel regression modeling was applied to determine factors related to CIMT. Data included 8872 adults (50.8% men), mean age of 50±6 years with age- and sex-adjusted mean (±SE) CIMT of 640±123μm. Participants from Ghana and Burkina Faso had higher CIMT compared with other sites. Age (β = 6.77, 95%CI [6.34-7.19]), body mass index (17.6[12.5-22.8]), systolic blood pressure (7.52[6.21-8.83]), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (5.08[2.10-8.06]) and men (10.3[4.75- 15.9]) were associated with higher CIMT. Smoking was associated with higher CIMT in men. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-12.2 [-17.9- -6.41]), alcohol consumption (-13.5 [-19.1--7.91]) and HIV (-8.86 [-15.7--2.03]) were inversely associated with CIMT. Conclusions Given the rising prevalence of cardiovascular diseases risk factors in sub-Saharan Africa, atherosclerotic diseases may become a major pan-African epidemic unless preventive measures are taken particularly for prevention of hypertension, obesity, and smoking. HIV -specific studies are needed to fully understand the association between HIV and CIMT in sub-Saharan Africa.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304842	HIV
Expert opinion on drug safety	Metabolic complications affecting adipose tissue, lipid and glucose metabolism associated with HIV antiretroviral treatment.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304808	HIV
Accountability in research	Breaking the Germline Barrier in a Moral Vacuum.	In November 2018 a Chinese scientist claimed to have used CRISPR/Cas 9 technology to genetically modify two human embryos that were then gestated in one adult woman through an IVF pregnancy and brought to term. The twin girls are allegedly the first babies born with their prenatal genomes edited. Using both English language and Chinese supporting documents, this paper discusses the background of this human experiment, the social context of Chinese science, and the alleged ethical transgressions of its principal scientist.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304778	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304778	HIV
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Serum Alanine Aminotransferase Elevations in HIV Positive Patients on Antiretroviral Therapy in India.	This study concludes that elevated ALT levels are seen in patients on antiretroviral therapy and persist throughout the course of first year, though maximum levels are seen at around twenty four weeks of therapy. Total hepatotoxicity was found to be 16.89%. Longer follow up of patients is required to assess the effect of ALT elevations on morbidity and mortality of patients and a close monitoring of ALT is required in patients on ART and other hepatotoxic therapies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31304710	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304710	HIV
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	High Prevalence of Vitamin D Deficiency in HIV Infected on Antiretroviral Therapy in a Cohort of Indian Patients.	Vitamin D deficiency is very high in HIV patients on antiretroviral therapy. . Efavirenz (EFV), Nevirapine (NVP), Tenofovir (TDF) and Protease Inhibitors (PI's) were associated with high levels of deficiency/insufficiency of vitamin D levels. Vitamin D supplementation as a global strategy in all HIV positive patients on antiretroviral therapy is advocated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31304705	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304705	HIV
NPJ digital medicine	Ultra-rapid, sensitive and specific digital diagnosis of HIV with a dual-channel SAW biosensor in a pilot clinical study.	Despite widened access to HIV testing, around half of those infected worldwide are unaware of their HIV-positive status and linkage to care remains a major challenge. Current rapid HIV tests are typically analogue risking incorrect interpretation, no facile electronic data capture, poor linkage to care and data loss for public health. Smartphone-connected diagnostic devices have potential to dramatically improve access to testing and patient retention with electronic data capture and wireless connectivity. We report a pilot clinical study of surface acoustic wave biosensors based on low-cost components found in smartphones to diagnose HIV in 133 patient samples. We engineered a small, portable, laboratory prototype and dual-channel biochips, with in-situ reference control coating and miniaturised configuration, requiring only 6 µL plasma. The dual-channel biochips were functionalized by ink-jet printing with capture coatings to detect either anti-p24 or anti-gp41 antibodies, and a reference control. Biochips were tested with 31 plasma samples from patients with HIV, and 102 healthy volunteers. SH-SAW biosensors showed excellent sensitivity, specificity, low sample volumes and rapid time to result, and were benchmarked to commercial rapid HIV tests. Testing for individual biomarkers found sensitivities of 100% (anti-gp41) and 64.5% (anti-p24) (combined sensitivity of 100%) and 100% specificity, within 5 min. All positive results were recorded within 60 s of sample addition with an electronic readout. Next steps will focus on a smartphone-connected device prototype and user-friendly app interface for larger scale evaluation and field studies, towards our ultimate goal of a new generation of affordable, connected point-of-care HIV tests.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304317	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304317	HIV
Open forum infectious diseases	Interest in Switching to On-Demand HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) Among Australian Users of Daily PrEP: An Online Survey.	We surveyed 970 PrEPX study participants to evaluate interest in switching from daily to on-demand PrEP in a study setting. Interested respondents (n = 469, 48%) more commonly reported PrEP cessation (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 3.0; 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304192	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304192	HIV
Open forum infectious diseases	High Kynurenine:Tryptophan Ratio Is Associated With Liver Fibrosis in HIV-Monoinfected and HIV/Hepatitis C Virus-Coinfected Women.	The kyn/trp ratio is elevated in PWH and is associated with greater liver fibrosis. Tryptophan catabolism may modify the relationships between HIV, HCV, and fibrosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304190	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304190	HIV
Open forum infectious diseases	Cross-Sectional and Cumulative Longitudinal Central Nervous System Penetration Effectiveness Scores Are Not Associated With Neurocognitive Impairment in a Well Treated Aging Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Positive Population in Switzerland.	In this large cohort of aviremic PWH, we observed no association between NCI, whether HIV-associated or related to other factors, and CPE score, whether cross-sectional or cumulative.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304188	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304188	HIV
Open forum infectious diseases	Efficient HIV-1 	Our study supports a role for HIV-1 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304185	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304185	HIV
Journal of extracellular vesicles	Acetylcholinesterase is not a generic marker of extracellular vesicles.	Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity is found in abundance in reticulocytes and neurons and was developed as a marker of reticulocyte EVs in the 1970s. Easily, quickly, and cheaply assayed, AChE activity has more recently been proposed as a generic marker for small extracellular vesicles (sEV) or exosomes, and as a negative marker of HIV-1 virions. To evaluate these proposed uses of AChE activity, we examined data from different EV and virus isolation methods using T-lymphocytic (H9, PM1 and Jurkat) and promonocytic (U937) cell lines grown in culture conditions that differed by serum content. When EVs were isolated by differential ultracentrifugation, no correlation between AChE activity and particle count was observed. AChE activity was detected in non-conditioned medium when serum was added, and most of this activity resided in soluble fractions and could not be pelleted by centrifugation. The serum-derived pelletable AChE protein was not completely eliminated from culture medium by overnight ultracentrifugation; however, a serum "extra-depletion" protocol, in which a portion of the supernatant was left undisturbed during harvesting, achieved near-complete depletion. In conditioned medium also, only small percentages of AChE activity could be pelleted together with particles. Furthermore, no consistent enrichment of AChE activity in sEV fractions was observed. Little if any AChE activity is produced by the cells we examined, and this activity was mainly present in non-vesicular structures, as shown by electron microscopy. Size-exclusion chromatography and iodixanol gradient separation showed that AChE activity overlaps only minimally with EV-enriched fractions. AChE activity likely betrays exposure to blood products and not EV abundance, echoing the MISEV 2014 and 2018 guidelines and other publications. Additional experiments may be merited to validate these results for other cell types and biological fluids other than blood.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Sweden	31303981	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303981	HIV
The Malaysian journal of medical sciences : MJMS	Prevalence of HIV, Hepatitis B and C Virus Co-infections among Iranian High-Risk Groups: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	Co-infection with hepatitis B and C among HIV infected patients are prevalent among high-risk populations. This meta-analysis aimed to estimate the prevalence of HIV, HCV and HBV co-infections among high-risk populations in Iran. We systematically searched the national and international electronic databases until 2016. The primary outcome was the prevalence of HIV, HBV, HCV and HIV co-infections in different high-risk populations in Iran. All English and Persian studies conducted on Iranian high-risk groups were included in the study. The review was reported based on PRISMA guidelines and data were analysed at 95% confidence level using random effect models. Overall, 916 relevant papers were recognised and 14 articles were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled estimates of HBV/HCV, HCV/HIV, HBV/HIV and HBV/HCV/HIV were 1.3% (95%CI: 0.5-2.1), 16.3% (95%CI: 1.1-31.6), 0.5% (95%CI: 0-1.4) and 0.5% (95%CI: 0.2-0.8), respectively. Based on subgroup analysis, there was a higher proportion of all co-infections from the years 2010-2016 as compared to that of the years 2003-2009. Our results highlighted that HCV/HIV co-infection in Iranian high-risk groups including injection drug users (IDUs) and prisoners is common. In addition, the increasing trend of coinfections should be considered alarming for policymakers.	2019	eng	Review	Malaysia	31303849	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303849	HIV
The lancet. HIV	Combined estimation of disease progression and retention on antiretroviral therapy among treated individuals with HIV in the USA: a modelling study.	US National Institutes of Health, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, and Health Resources and Services Administration.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303557	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303557	HIV
The lancet. HIV	Use of big data to identify risk of adverse HIV outcomes.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303556	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303556	HIV
The Journal of adolescent health : official publication of the Society for Adolescent Medicine	Parent/Caregiver Responses to Gender Identity Associated With HIV-Related Sexual Risk Behavior Among Young Trans Women in San Francisco.	Negative parent/caregiver exposures related to YTW's gender identities were associated with increased HIV-related sexual risk behaviors, whereas parent/caregiver acceptance of gender identity was protective against condomless anal intercourse for Hispanic/Latinx YTW. There is a need for additional studies that inform interventions for YTW focusing on parent/caregiver relationships to prevent HIV-related risk behavior.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303553	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303553	HIV
Enfermeria clinica	Family acceptance, peer support, and HIV serostatus disclosure of MSM-PLWHA in Medan, Indonesia.	Peer support affects HIV serostatus disclosure in MSM-PLWHA. Peer group interventions need to be improved. Providing systematic peer group support for MSM-PLWHA and integrating intervention with peer support might need to be done for the next care plan for MSM-PLWHA in Medan, Indonesia.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31303520	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303520	HIV
Women's health issues : official publication of the Jacobs Institute of Women's Health	The Association of Trauma with the Physical, Behavioral, and Social Health of Women Living with HIV: Pathways to Guide Trauma-informed Health Care Interventions.	These data suggest that trauma is associated with much of the morbidity and mortality experienced by WLHIV. The results of this study support the implementation and study of trauma-informed approaches to health care for WLHIV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303419	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303419	HIV
The Lancet. Global health	Is circumcision an answer for HIV prevention in men who have sex with men? - Authors' reply.	 	2019	eng	Letter	England	31303288	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303288	HIV
The Lancet. Global health	Is circumcision an answer for HIV prevention in men who have sex with men?	 	2019	eng	Letter	England	31303287	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303287	HIV
The Lancet. Global health	Syphilis diagnosis and treatment during antenatal care: the potential catalytic impact of the dual HIV and syphilis rapid diagnostic test.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303285	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303285	HIV
HIV research & clinical practice	Retention in clinical trials after prison release: results from a clinical trial with incarcerated men with HIV and opioid dependence in Malaysia.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303149	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303149	HIV
HIV research & clinical practice	Disengagement and reengagement of HIV continuum of care in a single center cohort in northern Italy.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303148	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303148	HIV
HIV research & clinical practice	Darunavir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide in treatment-naïve patients with HIV-1: subgroup analyses of the phase 3 AMBER study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303147	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303147	HIV
HIV research & clinical practice	Study protocol for the targeting effective analgesia in clinics for HIV (TEACH) study - a cluster randomized controlled trial and parallel cohort to increase guideline concordant care for long-term opioid therapy among people living with HIV.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303143	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303143	HIV
HIV research & clinical practice	Dolutegravir plus rilpivirine as dual regimen in virologically suppressed HIV-1 infected patients in a clinical setting.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303142	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303142	HIV
HIV research & clinical practice	Quality of life of older women living with HIV: comparative assessment of physical and mental health-related markers using a large Canadian Sexual and Reproductive Health Cohort Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303141	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303141	HIV
HIV research & clinical practice	Efficacy and safety of elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide in Asian participants with human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection: A sub-analysis of phase 3 clinical trials.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303140	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303140	HIV
AIDS research and human retroviruses	Frailty in Comorbid HIV and Lifetime Methamphetamine Use Disorder: Associations with Neurocognitive and Everyday Functioning.	HIV and methamphetamine (MA) use disorder are commonly comorbid and individually-associated with adverse health consequences, including frailty; however, less is known about the combined effects of both conditions. The current cross-sectional study examined how HIV and lifetime MA use disorder relate to frailty, and explored associations between frailty and relevant clinical outcomes (i.e., neurocognitive and everyday functioning). Participants were categorized into three groups based on HIV status and lifetime MA diagnosis: HIV+/MA+ (n=43), HIV+/MA- (n=75), and HIV-/MA- (n=92). A frailty index score (representing proportion of accumulated multisystem deficits) was calculated from 27 medical and psychiatric deficits. Multiple regression was used to examine frailty index score by HIV/MA group. Additional multiple regression models examined the interaction between frailty and HIV/MA group on cognitive and everyday functioning. Comorbid HIV+/MA+ participants had higher frailty index scores than both HIV-/MA- (b=-0.13, p<.001) and HIV+/MA- participants (b=-0.06, p=.007). Additional models linked higher frailty index score to worse global neurocognition (b=-17.6, p=.018) and greater likelihood of everyday functioning dependence (OR=1.56, p=.021). Although these relationships did not significantly differ by HIV/MA status, group-stratified analyses showed that associations of frailty with neurocognitive and everyday functioning were strongest among the HIV+/MA+ group. Multimodal public health interventions aimed at reducing frailty may help to decrease the likelihood of neurocognitive and everyday functioning problems. Current findings additionally lay groundwork for future longitudinal research examining whether frailty predicts onset of neurocognitive and functional decline in individuals with comorbid HIV and MA use disorder.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303012	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303012	HIV
The British journal of dermatology	Grading immunohistochemical markers p16	Combined p16/E4 IHC identifies productive and non-productive HSIL associated with hrHPV within the group of HSIL defined by the Lower Anogenital Squamous Terminology recommendations. This opens the possibility of investigating selective treatment of hrHPV-caused advanced transforming HSIL and a "wait and see" policy for productive HSIL.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302935	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302935	HIV
Cancer causes & control : CCC	Screening for anal cancer precursors among patients living with HIV in the absence of national guidelines: practitioners' perspectives.	Practitioners who provide care for PLWH are proactive in screening to help prevent and control anal cancer, a rare and slow-growing disease. Continuing to regularly surveil high-risk populations, particularly PLWH previously diagnosed with high-grade lesions, is critical to prevent and control anal cancer.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302838	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302838	HIV
Biosensors & bioelectronics	Development of a multiplex fully automated assay for rapid quantification of CD4	The development of cost-effective and rapid assays for the accurate counting of CD4 cells has remained prime focus for disease management. The lack of such assays has severely affected people living in resource-limited disease prevalent areas. CD4 count information plays a vital role in the effective management of HIV disease. There is an unmet need to develop rapid, cost-effective, portable and user-friendly point-of-care (POC) disease diagnostic platform technology for CD4	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302394	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302394	HIV
Phytomedicine : international journal of phytotherapy and phytopharmacology	Tris(8-Hydroxyquinoline)iron induces apoptotic cell death via oxidative stress and by activating death receptor signaling pathway in human head and neck carcinoma cells.	This study is the first to suggest that apoptosis mediates the anti-HNSCC of Feq	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302316	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302316	HIV
Fungal genetics and biology : FG & B	Multidrug transporters of Candida species in clinical azole resistance.	Over-expression of the human P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in tumor cells is a classic example of an ABC protein serving as a hindrance to effective chemotherapy. The existence of proteins homologous to P-gp in organisms encompassing the entire living kingdom highlights extrusion of drugs as a general mechanism of multidrug resistance. Infections caused by opportunistic human fungal pathogens such as Candida species are very common and has intensified in recent years. The typical hosts, who possess suppressed immune systems due to conditions such as HIV and transplantation surgery etc., are prone to fungal infections. Prolonged chemotherapy induces fungal cells to eventually develop tolerance to most of the antifungals currently in clinical use. Amongst other prominent mechanisms of antifungal resistance such as manipulation of the drug target, rapid efflux achieved through overexpression of multidrug transporters has emerged as a major resistance mechanism for azoles. Herein, the azole-resistant clinical isolates of Candida species utilize a few select efflux pump proteins belonging to the ABC and MFS superfamilies, to deter the toxic accumulation of therapeutic azoles and thus, facilitating cell survival. In this article, we summarize and discuss the clinically relevant mechanisms of azole resistance in Candida albicans and non-albicans Candida (NAC) species, specifically highlighting the role of multidrug efflux proteins in the phenomenon.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31302289	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302289	HIV
The lancet. HIV	Correction to Lancet HIV 2019; 6: e416-17.	 	2019	eng	Published Erratum	Netherlands	31302088	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302088	HIV
Biochimica et biophysica acta. Biomembranes	Hydrophobic matching of HIV-1 Vpu transmembrane helix-helix interactions is optimized for subcellular location.	The HIV-1 accessory protein Vpu mediates the downregulation of several host cell proteins, an activity that is critical for viral replication in vivo. As the first step in directing cell-surface proteins to internal cellular compartments, and in many cases degradation, Vpu binds a subset of its target proteins through their transmembrane domains. Each of the known targets of Vpu are synthesized in the ER, and must traverse the different membrane environments found along the secretory pathway, thus it is important to consider how membrane composition might influence the interactions between Vpu and its targets. We have used Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET) to measure the oligomerization of Vpu with the transmembrane domains of target proteins in model membranes of varying lipid composition. Our data show that both lipid bilayer thickness and acyl chain order can significantly influence monomer-oligomer equilibria within the Vpu-target system. Changes in oligomerization levels were found to be non-specific with no single Vpu-target interaction being favored under any condition. Our analysis of the influence of the membrane environment on the strength of helix-helix interactions between Vpu and its targets in vitro suggests that the strength of Vpu-target interactions in vivo will be partially dependent on the membrane environment found in specific membrane compartments.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302078	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302078	HIV
Enfermeria clinica	Self-efficacy, depression, and adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) among Indonesian women with HIV.	It is recommended to increase the level adherence rate by improving self-efficacy and reduce depression.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31302024	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302024	HIV
La Revue de medecine interne	[Ocular syphilis, a re-emergent pathology: Series of 12 patients in one Hospital, 2017].	Ophtalmic cases of syphilis have become more frequent over the past few years in France. The diagnosis should be suspected in cases of eye inflammation even in the absence of favourable clinical presentation or anamnesis. Search for HIV co-infection should be systematic. Our study shows that ceftriaxone remains an effective alternative to penicillin G.	2019	fre	Journal Article	France	31301942	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301942	HIV
The Lancet. Child & adolescent health	Fighting the HIV epidemic in eastern Europe and central Asia.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301751	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301751	HIV
International journal of infectious diseases : IJID : official publication of the International Society for Infectious Diseases	Recent autochthonous cases of leishmaniasis in residents of the Republic of Dagestan, Russian Federation.	Eighty years after the last published record of human leishmaniasis from Dagestan, Russian Federation, we report two recent cases which were most probably acquired locally: one case of visceral leishmaniasis in a 2-years old child, and one cutaneous leishmaniasis case in a 39-years-old man co-infected with HIV, both resident in Dagestan.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31301457	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301457	HIV
The Brazilian journal of infectious diseases : an official publication of the Brazilian Society of Infectious Diseases	Factors associated with mortality in HIV patients failing antiretroviral therapy, in Salvador, Brazil.	Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly improved survival of people living with HIV/Aids (PLWHA). However, poor treatment adherence to HAART and other problems, still cause therapy failure and contribute to increased morbidity and mortality of PLWHA. In this retrospective cohort study (2013-2015), we sought to evaluate the factors associated with mortality of PLWHA failing HAART in 2013, who were receiving care at a reference center for sexually transmitted diseases (STD) and HIV/AIDS. A total of 165 individuals over 18 years of age who were failing antiretroviral therapy were evaluated. In two-year follow-up, 19 (11.5%) deaths were documented. There were a significant association between mortality and report of illicit drug use (53%, p < 0.01), being attended by a larger number of medical professionals (6.3 ± 3.2, p = 0.02), use of firstline non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (74%, p = 0.01), and history of interrupting HAART ≥3 months (90%), p = 0.02). Patients who died had a significantly higher viral load (mean 49,192.4 ± 35,783.6 copies/mL) than survivors (26,389.2 ± 27,416 copies/mm	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31301280	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301280	HIV
Protein science : a publication of the Protein Society	Structural insights into the recognition of Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTIs) by HIV-1 reverse transcriptase: First crystal structures with RT and the active triphosphate forms of lamivudine and emtricitabine.	The retrovirus HIV-1 has been a major health issue since its discovery in the early 80s. In 2017, over 37 million people were infected with HIV-1, of which 1.8 million were new infections that year. Currently, the most successful treatment regimen is the highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART), which consists of a combination of three to four of the current 26 FDA-approved HIV-1 drugs. Half of these drugs target the reverse transcriptase (RT) enzyme that is essential for viral replication. One class of RT inhibitors are nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs), a crucial component of the HAART therapy. Once incorporated into DNA, NRTIs function as a chain terminator to stop viral DNA replication. Unfortunately, treatment with NRTIs is sometimes linked to toxicity caused by off-target side effects. NRTIs may also target the replicative human mitochondrial DNA polymerase (Pol γ), causing long-term severe drug toxicity. The goal of this work is to understand the discrimination mechanism of different NRTI analogs by RT. Crystal structures and kinetic experiments are essential for the rational design of new molecules that are able to bind selectively to RT and not Pol γ. Structural comparison of NRTI-binding modes with both RT and Pol γ enzymes highlights key amino acids that are responsible for the difference in affinity of these drugs to their targets. Therefore, the long-term goal of this research is to develop safer, next generation therapeutics that can overcome off-target toxicity. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301259	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301259	HIV
Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology : JEADV	Incidence of cutaneous adverse events after exposure to tenofovir-emtricitabine in HIV-uninfected vs HIV-infected patients: Pharmacovigilance within a large Midwestern U.S. patient population from the Research on Adverse Drug events And Reports (RADAR) Program.	Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) combined with emtricitabine (FTC) for HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP, FDA approval 07/2012) has been shown to dramatically decrease HIV acquisition rates in high-risk populations. TDF-FTC is also used as part of multi-drug combination antiretroviral (cART) regimens for treatment of HIV(+) patients (FDA approval 08/2004). When TDF-FTC is used as part of cART, cutaneous adverse events (cAEs), including serious cAEs, have been well-reported. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301245	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301245	HIV
The Journal of infectious diseases	Can HCV be eliminated among HIV-positive men who have sex with men in Berlin? A modeling analysis.	HCV elimination among HIV+ MSM in Berlin likely requires combining DAA scale-up with moderately effective behavioral interventions to reduce risk among all MSM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301142	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301142	HIV
The Journal of infectious diseases	HLA-I associated adaptation dampens the CD8 T-cell response in HIV Ad5-vectored vaccine recipients.	HLA-I associated HIV adaptation is known to negatively impact disease progression and CD8 T-cell responses. We aimed to assess how HLA-I associated adaptation impacts HIV vaccine-induced CD8 T-cell responses in two past vaccine efficacy trials. We found that vaccine-encoded adapted epitopes were less immunogenic than vaccine-encoded non-adapted epitopes, and adapted epitope-specific responses were less polyfunctional than non-adapted epitope-specific responses. Along those lines, vaccine recipients with higher HLA-I adaptation to the Gag vaccine insert mounted less polyfunctional CD8 T-cell responses at the protein-level. Response breadth, which correlated with viral control in recipients who became infected, is also dampened by HLA-I adaptation. These findings suggest that HLA-I associated adaptation is an important consideration for strategies aiming to induce robust CD8 T-cell responses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301135	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301135	HIV
Plant biotechnology journal	Engineering the interactions between a plant-produced HIV antibody and human Fc receptors.	Plants can provide a cost-effective and scalable technology for production of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies, with the potential for precise engineering of glycosylation. Glycan structures in the antibody Fc region influence binding properties to Fc receptors which opens opportunities for modulation of antibody effector functions. To test the impact of glycosylation in detail, on binding to human Fc receptors, different glycovariants of VRC01, a broadly-neutralising HIV monoclonal antibody, were generated in Nicotiana benthamiana and characterised. These include glycovariants lacking plant characteristic α1,3-fucose and β1,2-xylose residues and glycans extended with terminal β1,4-galactose. Surface plasmon resonance-based assays were established for kinetic/affinity evaluation of antibody - FcγR interactions, and revealed that antibodies with typical plant glycosylation have a limited capacity to engage FcγRI, FcγRIIa, FcγRIIb and FcγRIIIa, however the binding characteristics can be restored and even improved with targeted glycoengineering. All plant-made glycovariants had a slightly reduced affinity to the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) compared with HEK cell derived antibody. However, this was independent of plant glycosylation, but related to the oxidation status of two methionine residues in the Fc region. This points towards a need for process optimisation to control oxidation levels and improve the quality of plant-produced antibodies. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301102	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301102	HIV
AIDS and behavior	Characterizing Men Who Have Sex with Transgender Women in Lima, Peru: Sexual Behavior and Partnership Profiles.	HIV prevalence is high among transgender women (TW), but how HIV is transmitted to this population is not well understood. This analysis aims to characterize sexual partners of TW (PTW) to understand how their behavior contributes to HIV risk among TW. We examined baseline data from TW, PTW, and men who have sex with men (MSM) from a treatment-as-prevention study in Lima, Peru. Individual and partnership characteristics were compared across groups, and Poisson regression was used to calculate prevalence ratios for associations between sexual concurrency and potential correlates. We found that 81% of PTW had no cisgender male partners. Prevalence of alcohol dependency, concurrency, and condomless anal intercourse was high and HIV testing was low compared to the other groups. Our results suggest that PTW are a distinct population from MSM and TW, engage in behavior associated with HIV transmission, and are likely not well reached by HIV prevention interventions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300977	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300977	HIV
Gene therapy	Inside out: optimization of lipid nanoparticle formulations for exterior complexation and in vivo delivery of saRNA.	Self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) is a promising biotherapeutic tool that has been used as a vaccine against both infectious diseases and cancer. saRNA has been shown to induce protein expression for up to 60 days and elicit immune responses with lower dosing than messenger RNA (mRNA). Because saRNA is a large (~9500 nt), negatively charged molecule, it requires a delivery vehicle for efficient cellular uptake and degradation protection. Lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) have been widely used for RNA formulations, where the prevailing paradigm is to encapsulate RNA within the particle, including the first FDA-approved small-interfering siRNA therapy. Here, we compared LNP formulations with cationic and ionizable lipids with saRNA either on the interior or exterior of the particle. We show that LNPs formulated with cationic lipids protect saRNA from RNAse degradation, even when it is adsorbed to the surface. Furthermore, cationic LNPs deliver saRNA equivalently to particles formulated with saRNA encapsulated in an ionizable lipid particle, both in vitro and in vivo. Finally, we show that cationic and ionizable LNP formulations induce equivalent antibodies against HIV-1 Env gp140 as a model antigen. These studies establish formulating saRNA on the surface of cationic LNPs as an alternative to the paradigm of encapsulating RNA.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300730	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300730	HIV
Scientific reports	A longitudinal study on latent TB infection screening and its association with TB incidence in HIV patients.	Latent TB infection (LTBI) in HIV patients, its treatment, and immunological recovery following highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) could interact and impact TB disease progression. We aim to examine the factors associated with LTBI and TB disease development among HIV patients. Longitudinal clinical and laboratory data were accessed from the largest HIV specialist clinic in Hong Kong, where HAART and yearly LTBI screening are routinely provided for HIV patients. Between 2002 and mid-2017, among 2079 HIV patients with 14119 person-years (PY) of follow-up, 32% of LTBI screened patients (n = 1740) were tested positive. The overall TB incidence was 1.26/100 PY from HIV diagnosis to HAART initiation, falling to 0.37/100 PY. A lower risk of TB disease progression was associated with local residence, Chinese ethnicity, negative baseline LTBI result, being on HAART, LTBI treatment, higher baseline CD4 and CD4/CD8 ratio. A positive test at baseline, but not subsequent testing results, was significantly associated with TB disease development. Baseline LTBI screening is an important strategy for identifying HIV patients at risk of TB disease progression. Routine repeat LTBI screening on an annual basis might not give additional benefits to patients on HAART with good immunological responses. Such practice should require re-evaluation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300686	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300686	HIV
eNeuro	Morphine-Induced Modulation of Endolysosomal Iron Mediates Upregulation of Ferritin Heavy Chain in Cortical Neurons.	HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) remain prevalent and are aggravated by µ-opioid use. We have previously shown that morphine and other µ-opioids may contribute to HAND by inhibiting the homeostatic and neuroprotective chemokine receptor CXCR4 in cortical neurons, and this novel mechanism depends on upregulation of the protein ferritin heavy chain (FHC). Here, we examined the cellular events and potential mechanisms involved in morphine-mediated FHC upregulation using rat cortical neurons of either sex in vitro and in vivo. Morphine dose-dependently increased FHC protein levels in primary neurons through µ-opioid receptor (µOR) and Gαi-protein signaling. Cytoplasmic FHC levels were significantly elevated, but nuclear FHC levels and FHC gene expression were unchanged. Morphine-treated rats also displayed increased FHC levels in layer 2/3 neurons of the prefrontal cortex. Importantly, both in vitro and in vivo FHC upregulation was accompanied by loss of mature dendritic spines, which was also dependent on µOR and Gαi-protein signaling. Moreover, morphine upregulated ferritin light chain (FLC), a component of the ferritin iron storage complex, suggesting that morphine altered neuronal iron metabolism. Indeed, prior to FHC upregulation, morphine increased cytoplasmic labile iron levels as a function of decreased endolysosomal iron. In line with this, chelation of endolysosomal iron (but not extracellular iron) blocked morphine-induced FHC upregulation and dendritic spine reduction, whereas iron overloading mimicked the effect of morphine on FHC and dendritic spines. Overall, these data demonstrate that iron mediates morphine-induced FHC upregulation and consequent dendritic spine deficits and implicate endolysosomal iron efflux to the cytoplasm in these effects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300544	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300544	HIV
Journal of infection and chemotherapy : official journal of the Japan Society of Chemotherapy	Diagnosis and treatment of Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia in HIV-infected or non-HIV-infected patients-difficulties in diagnosis and adverse effects of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.	The clinical characteristics of Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) in patients with immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection (HIV-PCP) differ from those in patients without HIV infection (non-HIV-PCP). We analyzed 31 adult HIV-PCP cases and 44 non-HIV-PCP cases between 2008 and 2018. The symptomatic period before the diagnosis was shorter in non-HIV-PCP (5 [3-8] days vs. 29 [14-55] days, P < 0.001) and the overall survival rate was lower in the non-HIV-PCP group (P = 0.022). Serum β-D glucan positivity (72.7% vs. 93.5%, P = 0.034) and Grocott stain positivity for Pneumocystis jirovecii in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (4.3% vs. 73.3%, P < 0.001) were significantly lower in the non-HIV-PCP group. This difficulty in laboratory diagnosis possibly resulted in the administration of concurrent antibiotics such as quinolones and macrolides (56.8% vs. 19.4% P = 0.002) in the non-HIV-PCP group. The adverse effects due to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole were more frequently observed in HIV-PCP (86.2% vs. 35.3%, P < 0.001). The duration of discontinuation of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole was 11 [8-14.5] days in HIV-PCP cases. Co-administration of adjunctive corticosteroid therapy did not mitigate hypersensitivity to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Our analysis indicated that the characteristics of PCP in patients with or without HIV was quite different. HIV-positive patients with PCP should be monitored closely to avoid adverse effects due to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Because positivity polymerase chain reaction test for P. jirovecii remained high (91.7%), it is suggested that bronchofiberscopy is warranted for diagnosis of PCP in HIV-negative patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31300379	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300379	HIV
EBioMedicine	TLR9 agonist MGN1703 enhances B cell differentiation and function in lymph nodes.	Our data present novel evidence that the TLR9 agonist MGN1703 modulates human lymph node B cells in vivo. These findings warrant further considerations in the development of TLR9 agonists as immunotherapy against cancers and infectious diseases. FUND: This work was supported by Aarhus University Research Foundation, the Danish Council for Independent Research and the NovoNordisk Foundation. Mologen AG provided study drug free of charge.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31300344	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300344	HIV
Trends in molecular medicine	Self-DNA Sensing Fuels HIV-1-Associated Inflammation.	Inflammation, over-reacting innate immunity, and CD4	2019	eng	Review	England	31300343	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300343	HIV
Enfermeria clinica	The relationship between stigma, religiosity, and the quality of life of HIV-positive MSM in Medan, Indonesia.	These findings suggest that stigma is an indicator of poor quality of life, while higher religiosity is associated with better quality of life. An interdisciplinary approach is needed in health care planning and social services, to improve the quality of life of HIV-positive MSM.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31300297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300297	HIV
Vaccine	Polymer-grafted chromatography media for the purification of enveloped virus-like particles, exemplified with HIV-1 gag VLP.	Polymer-grafted chromatography media, especially ion exchangers, are high performance materials for protein purification. However, due to the pore size limitation, conventional chromatography beads are usually not considered for the downstream processing of large biomolecules such as virus-like particles (VLPs). Contrariwise, since the outer surface of the chromatography beads provides satisfactory binding capacity for VLPs and impurities of smaller size can bind inside of the beads, conventional porous beads should be considered for VLP capture and purification. We used HIV-1 gag VLPs with a diameter of 100-200 nm as a model to demonstrate that polymer-grafted anion exchangers are suitable for the purification of bionanoparticles. The equilibrium binding capacity was 1 × 10	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31300289	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300289	HIV
Annals of hepatology	Some considerations about HBV vaccination among HIV patients from Latin America and the Caribbean.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Mexico	31300217	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300217	HIV
BMC research notes	Effectiveness of directly observed treatment short course (DOTS) on treatment of tuberculosis patients in public health facilities of Debre Tabor Town, Ethiopia: retrospective study.	Among 354 TB patients, 53.1% were males. Furthermore 22.6%, 40.4%, and 37% were smear positive pulmonary, smear negative pulmonary and extra pulmonary TB respectively. Study also revealed that TB-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection and overall TB treatment success rate were 18.1% and 90.7% respectively. Regular weigh follow-up, sputum follow-up and HIV status were significantly associated with treatment success with P-value < 0.001, < 0.001 and 0.334 respectively. But TB treatment success weren't associated with sex (P = 8.62), health facility type (P = 0.749) and TB type (P = 0.778). The study also showed that the overall TB treatment success rate was in line with World Health Organization (WHO) target on treatment success rate. Furthermore the study indicated higher TB-HIV co-infection and variations in conducting regular weight and sputum follow-up among HFs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300032	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300032	HIV
BMC research notes	Determinants of none-exclusive breast feeding practice among HIV positive women at selected Health Institutions in Ethiopia: case control study.	This study showed that being employed (AOR = 4.363, 95% CI 2.324 to 8.191), home delivery (AOR = 0.029, 95% CI 0.004 to 0.235) and secondary education (AOR = 10.351, 95% CI 1.297 to 82.628) are significantly associated with non-EBF. In this study none EBF practice was significantly associated with women who are employed, delivered at home and educational status.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300023	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300023	HIV
BMC infectious diseases	Evidence for heterogeneity in China's progress against pulmonary tuberculosis: uneven reductions in a major center of ongoing transmission, 2005-2017.	While PTB incidence rates decreased strikingly in the study area over the past decade, improvements have not been equally distributed. Additional surveillance and control efforts should be guided by the seasonal-trend and spatiotemporal cluster analyses presented here, focusing on areas with increasing incidence rates, and updated to reflect the latest information from real-time reporting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299911	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299911	HIV
BMC infectious diseases	Spatial analysis of HIV-TB co-clustering in Uganda.	This study makes a significant contribution to TB/HIV public health bodies around Uganda by identifying areas with high joint disease burden, in the light of TB/HIV co-infection. It, thus, provides a valuable starting point for an informed and targeted intervention, as a positive step towards a TB and HIV-AIDS free community.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299907	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299907	HIV
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Prevalence of HIV Associated Neurocognitive Disorder using Modified Mini Mental State Examination and its Correlation with CD4 Counts and Anti-retroviral Therapy.	HAND was less prevalent in the present study in comparison to past literature. CD4 counts and ART duration had an inverse association with the degree of cognitive impairment. The parameters of Modified Mini Mental State Examination showing maximum impairment may be compiled to form a short screening questionnaire.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31299839	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299839	HIV
Sexually transmitted diseases	Self-reported screening for rectal sexually transmitted infections among men who have sex with men.	Rectal STI screening is not universal in a venue-based sample of sexually-active MSM. Implementing innovative, acceptable, and accessible screening practices, enhancing health literacy around STI screening, and improving provider comfort with talking about sex are paramount to increasing rectal STI screening.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299682	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299682	HIV
International journal of infectious diseases : IJID : official publication of the International Society for Infectious Diseases	Human Papillomavirus oral Lesions in an antiretroviral therapy non-compliant HIV-infected Woman.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31299364	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299364	HIV
Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie	Suhuang antitussive capsule inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation and ameliorates pulmonary dysfunction via suppression of endoplasmic reticulum stress in cough variant asthma.	Pulmonary dysfunction is tightly associated with cough variant asthma (CVA), a respiratory damage disease. Suhuang antitussive capsule (Suhuang), one of traditional Chinese patent medicines, plays a crucial role in the treatment and complication of CVA in the long clinical application. In this study, we aimed to investigate the protective effects and underlying antitussive mechanisms of Suhuang on pulmonary function in ovalbumin (OVA)-induced CVA rats. Administration (i.g.) of Suhuang significantly alleviated pulmonary damage and dysfunction. Suhuang improved ER stress and PKCε translocation via regulation of Ca	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31315072	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315072	asthma
Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	Is allergic rhinitis related to migraine disability in adults?	Our results suggest that current allergic rhinitis, allergic rhinoconjunctivitis, and seasonal allergic rhinitis are not related to headache disability in adults with episodic migraine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314845	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314845	asthma
Arquivos de neuro-psiquiatria	The influence of allergic rhinoconjunctivitis on migraine disability in children.	Current allergic rhinoconjunctivitis is related to enhanced disability caused by headache in childhood migraine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314844	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314844	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Improving teacher comfort and self-efficacy in asthma management.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314614	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314614	asthma
Environmental health perspectives	Asthma Actors: Estimating How Much Specific Air Pollutants Contribute to ER Visits.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313937	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313937	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	A Longitudinal Examination of the Asthma Medication Ratio in Children with Medicaid.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313611	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313611	asthma
Phytotherapy research : PTR	Chrysophanol attenuates airway inflammation and remodeling through nuclear factor-kappa B signaling pathway in asthma.	Chrysophanol (CHR), a purified active constituent extracted from Rheum palmatum L., possesses anti-inflammatory activity. This study aimed to evaluate its effects on asthma-associated airway inflammation and remodeling. BALB/c mice were sensitized and challenged by ovalbumin (OVA) and administrated with different doses of CHR. We found that CHR decreased OVA-induced pulmonary inflammation: the levels of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5, and IL-13, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and inducible nitric oxide synthase were downregulated. CHR also attenuated airway remodeling induced by OVA challenge-CHR inhibited pulmonary α-smooth muscle actin expression. Moreover, both the nuclear translocation and activity of NF-κB p65 were inhibited by CHR in the asthmatic lung. Enhanced autophagy was initiated in the lung by OVA challenge as evidenced by upregulated light chain 3 beta, autophagy-related protein 5, and Beclin 1. CHR suppressed OVA-induced alterations in these autophagy-related molecules. In vitro, CHR (2 or 20 μM) was used to treat human pulmonary epithelial BEAS-2B cells in the presence of 10 ng/ml recombinant TNF-α. CHR not only exhibited the antiproliferation effect but also inhibited the activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB) signaling pathway in TNF-α-treated BEAS-2B cells. In conclusion, our study indicates that CHR has the potential to ameliorate asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313371	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313371	asthma
The patient	A Patient-Centered Description of Severe Asthma: Patient Understanding Leading to Assessment for a Severe Asthma Referral (PULSAR).	A patient-centered description of severe asthma has been developed and tested using patients with severe asthma; this description will allow patients to assess whether they might have severe asthma and prompt them to visit their healthcare provider, if appropriate.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31313272	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313272	asthma
International journal of clinical pharmacy	Counseling of inhalation medicine perceived by patients and their healthcare providers: insights from North Cyprus.	Background In order to achieve patient adherence, individuals require different levels of information. Basic and adequate information must be provided by different health care providers to patients. Objective To assess the information level of patients with asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and to determine the source of their information regarding the medicine they use in addition to their satisfaction, inhalation usage techniques and perception of the information providing role of health care professionals. Setting Respiratory disease clinics in Nicosia and Famagusta state hospitals and community pharmacies in North Cyprus. Method A cross-sectional multicentered observational study was carried out in respiratory disease clinics and community pharmacies. Patients' knowledge and healthcare providers' perceptions of their roles were evaluated using "The satisfaction with information about medicines scale". Evaluation of patient's inhalation techniques was performed using a validated checklist. Main outcome measure (a) Patients' knowledge of their medication and satisfaction with the information provided by health care professionals, (b) the prevalence of critical inhalation mistakes, (c) health care professionals' perceptions of their patient counseling practice. Results A total of 110 patients were evaluated, and 6 physicians and 76 pharmacists were recruited for the interview. The health care professionals reported that they talk about the action and the use of medicines with the patients. The standardized average patients' satisfaction score for action and use was 0.35 (± 0.21), whereas for potential side effects, it was 0.26 (± 0.15). Even though 92% of patients believed that they use their inhaler properly, 75% of the patients made at least one critical mistake while using the inhalation demo, which would likely affect the delivery of the medicine to the lungs. Conclusion In spite of health care professionals feeling comfortable with their counseling practices, the majority of patients reported dissatisfaction with the information they provided about medicine, and three out of four patients were making critical mistakes in the use of inhalers. More effort is warranted by health care professionals on patient education to limit critical mistakes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313004	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313004	asthma
Respiratory medicine case reports	A case of concomitant bronchial AnthracoFibrosis and tuberculosis presented as asthma-COPD- overlaps syndrome (ACOS).	In this article we present a case of a 75-year-old nonsmoker woman who was misdiagnosed as asthma-chronic obstructive airway disease overlap. The patient's history, examination and investigation confirmed the diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB) and anthracofibrosis (AFB). Our case demonstrates the difficulties that clinicians face with when patients present with chronic wheeze without any other specific symptoms at the outset.	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31312596	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312596	asthma
The Pan African medical journal	[A no scarring persistent skin lesion for 3 years pyoderma gangrenosum].	Pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) is a rare non-infectious neutrophilic dermatosis often unknowed. It usually presents with inflammatory skin ulcer, very painful, with rapid evolution. It is commonly found in a context of malignancy, inflammatory bowel disease, rheumatic and/or haematological disease. Its diagnosis is very often late after multiple therapeutic failures. We report a case of pyoderma gangrenosum whose diagnosis was not obvious. A patient was admitted to our department for a persistent dermatological lesion and adverse evolution despite debridements and the administration of antibiotics. He was followed for prostate cancer, high blood pressure and asthma. Due to observed biological abnormalities such as neutrophil leukocytosis with myelocyte and metamyelocyte myeloma, without blood blastosis and normochromic normocytic anemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia was suspected. It was later overturned by the various inconclusive supplementary examinations. This is how the diagnosis of PG was evoked and confirmed by anatomopathological examination showing a histopathological appearance of granulation tissue consistent with pyoderma gangrenosum and no sign of malignancy. The institution of a corticotherapy treatment resulted in the cure.	2019	fre	English Abstract	Uganda	31312310	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312310	asthma
Respiratory care	Effectiveness of a Pulmonary Rehabilitation Program on Persistent Asthma Stratified for Severity.	Subjects with asthma at any GINA step seemed to benefit from a pulmonary rehabilitation program; analysis of our data highlighted that pulmonary rehabilitation was more beneficial in younger subjects with a smoking history and worse baseline exercise tolerance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311850	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311850	asthma
DNA repair	Roles of OGG1 in transcriptional regulation and maintenance of metabolic homeostasis.	Cellular damage produced by conditions generating oxidative stress have far-reaching implications in human disease that encompass, but are not restricted to aging, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, airway inflammation/asthma, cancer, and metabolic syndrome including visceral obesity, insulin resistance, fatty liver disease, and dyslipidemia. Although there are numerous sources and cellular targets of oxidative stress, this review will highlight literature that has investigated downstream consequences of oxidatively-induced DNA damage in both nuclear and mitochondrial genomes. The presence of such damage can in turn, directly and indirectly modulate cellular transcriptional and repair responses to such stressors. As such, the persistence of base damage can serve as a key regulator in coordinated gene-response cascades. Conversely, repair of these DNA lesions serves as both a suppressor of mutagenesis and by inference carcinogenesis, and as a signal for the cessation of ongoing oxidative stress. A key enzyme in all these processes is 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1), which, via non-catalytic binding to oxidatively-induced DNA damage in promoter regions, serves as a nucleation site around which changes in large-scale regulation of inflammation-associated gene expression can occur. Further, the catalytic function of OGG1 can alter the three-dimensional structure of specialized DNA sequences, leading to changes in transcriptional profiles. This review will concentrate on adverse deleterious health effects that are associated with both the diminution of OGG1 activity via population-specific polymorphic variants and the complete loss of OGG1 in murine models. This mouse model displays diet- and age-related induction of metabolic syndrome, highlighting a key role for OGG1 in protecting against these phenotypes. Conversely, recent investigations using murine models having enhanced global expression of a mitochondrial-targeted OGG1 demonstrate that they are highly resistant to diet-induced disease. These data suggest strategies through which therapeutic interventions could be designed for reducing or limiting adverse human health consequences to these ubiquitous stressors.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31311771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311771	asthma
Allergology international : official journal of the Japanese Society of Allergology	Prevalence, disease burden, and treatment reality of patients with severe, uncontrolled asthma in Japan.	The percentages of severe asthma and SUA patients continuously treated in Japan were obtained through this large-scale analysis using a health insurance claims database. SUA patients had greater medical and economic burdens, suggesting more appropriate treatment is required according to the treatment guidelines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311707	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311707	asthma
Respiratory research	Bronchial thermoplasty increases airway volume measured by functional respiratory imaging.	This study demonstrates that BT increases the luminal airway volume on the treated side compared to the control lung. We suggest that this is an important link between the airway smooth muscle atrophy demonstrated pathologically, and the improvement in symptoms observed clinically.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311604	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311604	asthma
BMC research notes	Respiratory health, allergies, and the farm environment: design, methods and enrollment in the observational Wisconsin Infant Study Cohort (WISC): a research proposal.	Epidemiologic and cross-sectional studies suggest that early life farming and animal exposures are associated with major health benefits, influencing immune development and modifying the subsequent risk of allergic diseases, including asthma. The Wisconsin Infant Study Cohort (WISC) study was established in central Wisconsin to test the hypothesis that early life animal farm exposures are associated with distinct innate immune cell maturation trajectories, decreased allergen sensitization and reduced respiratory viral illness burden during the first 2 years of life. Beginning in 2013, a total of 240 families have been enrolled, 16,522 biospecimens have been collected, and 4098 questionnaires have been administered and entered into a secure database. Study endpoints include nasal respiratory virus identification and respiratory illness burden score, allergic sensitization, expression of allergic disease, and anti-viral immune response maturation and profiles. The WISC study prospective design, broad biospecimen collections, and unique US rural community will provide insights into the role of environmental exposures on early life immune maturation profiles associated with protection from allergic sensitization and significant respiratory viral disease burden. The WISC study findings will ultimately inform development of new strategies to promote resistance to severe respiratory viral illnesses and design primary prevention approaches for allergic diseases for all infants.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311588	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311588	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	The impact of a question prompt list and video intervention on teen asthma control and quality-of-life one year later: results of a randomized trial.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311361	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311361	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Prevalence and predictors of adherence to controller therapy in adult patients with severe/difficult to treat asthma - a systematic review and meta-analysis.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311359	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311359	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Methyl-Bromide and asthma emergency department visits in California, USA from 2005 to 2011.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311358	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311358	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Impact of allergies on health-related quality of life in patients with asthma.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311356	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311356	asthma
Journal of ethnopharmacology	Eriobotrya japonica leaf extract attenuates airway inflammation in ovalbumin-induced mice model of asthma.	Present study suggest that, EJ effectively protects against allergic airway inflammation thus possessing potential therapeutic option for allergic asthma management.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31310829	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310829	asthma
Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology	Blood eosinophil count correlates with severity of respiratory failure in life-threatening asthma and predicts risk of subsequent exacerbations.	In this study of life-threatening asthma, we found that a spot blood eosinophil count correlates with severity of respiratory failure and predicts risk of subsequent exacerbations. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310686	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310686	asthma
Asian Pacific journal of allergy and immunology	Association between sensitization and allergic diseases in 7-years-old Korean children.	The sensitization patterns including allergen type, number, and degree of sensitization are helpful for interpreting the association between sensitization and allergic diseases and identifying the pathophysiologies and diverse phenotypes of allergic diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Thailand	31310150	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310150	asthma
Current protein & peptide science	Biochemical Characteristics and Allergenic activity of Common Fungus Allergens.	Fungi form a large kingdom with more than 1.5 million species. Fungal spores are universal atmospheric components and are generally recognized as important causes of allergic disorders, including allergic rhinitis, allergic rhinosinusitis, asthma, and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. The 4 genera which have the closest connection with allergic disorder are Cladosporium, Alternaria, Aspergillus and Penicillium. The cDNA sequences of many fungi allergens and the amino acids involved in their immunoglobulin E binding and T-cell activation have already been elucidated. Until now, 111 allergens from 29 fungal genera have been approved by the International Allergen Nomenclature Sub-committee. This review mainly focuses on the biochemical characteristics and allergenic activity of important allergens from common environmental fungi.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United Arab Emirates	31309887	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309887	asthma
Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology	FCER2 T2206C variant associated with FENO levels in asthmatic children using inhaled corticosteroids: the PACMAN study.	Our results showed that the FCER2 T2206C variant was significantly associated with lower FENO levels in carriers of the G allele. Nevertheless, this SNP contributed little to the variability in FENO levels in this patient population. Our findings contribute to the present knowledge on FENO in asthmatic children; however, future replication studies are required to establish the role of this gene in relation to FENO. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309641	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309641	asthma
Allergy	Mechanisms and therapeutic strategies for Non-T2 Asthma.	Non T2 asthma is traditionally defined as asthma without features of T2 asthma. The definition is arbitrary, and is generally based on the presence of neutrophils in sputum, or the absence (or normal levels) of eosinophils or other T2 markers in sputum (pauci-granulocytic), airway biopsies or in blood. This definition may be imprecise as we gain more knowledge from applying transcriptomics and proteomics to blood and airway samples. The prevalence of non-T2 asthma is also difficult to estimate as most studies are cross-sectional and influenced by concomitant treatment with glucocorticosteroids, and by the presence of recognized or unrecognized airway infections. No specific therapies have shown any clinical benefits in patients with asthma that is associated with a non-T2 inflammatory process. It remains to be seen if such an endotype truly exists and to identify treatments to target that endotype. Meanwhile, identifying intense airway neutrophilia as an indicator of airway infection and airway hyperresponsiveness as an indicator of smooth muscle dysfunction, and treating them appropriately, and not increasing glucocorticosteroids in patients who do not have obvious T2 inflammation, seem reasonable. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31309578	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309578	asthma
Clinical reviews in allergy & immunology	Supporting a Healthy Microbiome for the Primary Prevention of Eczema.	Eczema is increasing worldwide with associated increases in health costs and decreases in quality of life. There are many factors that are speculated to interact in the development of eczema including genetics and environmental exposures. Prevention of the development of eczema may prevent the further development of food allergies and asthma. This concept has prompted a variety of research into the area of primary prevention of eczema in infants. This exploration includes a growing body of research examining infants supplemented with probiotics, prebiotics, or both (synbiotics) often compared with their breastfed counterparts. The goal of this paper is to examine the evidence for manipulating the microbiome in the prevention of eczema. Several strains of probiotics, compositions of prebiotics, and varied combinations of both are commercially available. Evidence supports altering the microbiome in infants at high risk of atopy who are not able to breastfeed with Lactobacillus strains when given both prenatally followed by prolonged use (greater than 6 months) postnatally for the primary prevention of eczema. Prebiotics have also been shown beneficial for primary prevention of eczema in formula-fed infants with prolonged use greater than 6 months. These findings are in keeping with the World Allergy Organization (WAO) recommendations that support interventions to manipulate the microbiome with both probiotics and prebiotics.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31309394	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309394	asthma
JPMA. The Journal of the Pakistan Medical Association	Single Intramuscular Methylprednisolone dose in Asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Patients on Discharge.	A single dose of methylprednisolone injection without any obvious side effects over one month among patients with asthma and COPD demonstrated a safe strategy for them.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Pakistan	31308569	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308569	asthma
Nihon yakurigaku zasshi. Folia pharmacologica Japonica	[Developmental history of sublingual immunotherapy].	Allergen immunotherapy is the only curative treatment for IgE-mediated allergic diseases in contrast to symptomatic treatment such as anti-histamine agents. Subcutaneous immunotherapy (SCIT) has been introduced in Japan for treatment of allergic rhinitis and/or asthma caused by pollens and/or house dust mites (HDM) in early 1960s, and the clinical efficacy has been well-known. However, the major drawbacks of SCIT are necessity of repeated painful injections as well as the risk of severe systemic adverse reactions. Sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT) was developed to resolve these issues. In Japan, Japanese cedar (JC) pollen SLIT-drop was developed initially for treatment of JC pollinosis, and approved for patients of 12 years of age and older in 2014. For adolescent and adult patients with HDM-allergic rhinitis, HDM SLIT-tablet was launched in 2015 and subsequently approved to be also available for pediatric patients (<12 years of age) in 2018. Moreover, JC pollen SLIT-tablet for JC pollinosis was approved in 2018 for all patients with no age limit. Here, we also describe that the formulation technologies of SLIT tablets and distribution of allergens after sublingual administration as well as the development of SLIT drop/tablets.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308350	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308350	asthma
Nihon yakurigaku zasshi. Folia pharmacologica Japonica	[Analyses of Foxp3	Subcutaneous immunotherapy (SCIT) is a causative treatment for allergic diseases. More recently, it has become clear that regulatory T (Treg) cells are increased by SCIT. Treg cells are generally divided into two main groups: 1) CD25	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308345	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308345	asthma
Arerugi = [Allergy]	None	 	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308339	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308339	asthma
Arerugi = [Allergy]	[A CASE OF CHILDHOOD-ONSET EOSINOPHILIC GRANULOMATOUS POLYANGIITIS WITH ASYMPTOMATIC MYOCARDIAL INVOLVEMENT WHO WAS DIAGNOSED AT MORE THAN 5 YEARS AFTER ONSET OF ATOPIC DERMATITIS AND BRONCHIAL ASTHMA].	Atopic dermatitis and bronchial asthma are common diseases in children. We report the development of eosinophilic polyangiitis granulomatosis (EGPA) in a young girl being treated for both atopic dermatitis, diagnosed at 1 year of age, and bronchial asthma, diagnosed at 4 years of age. Her eruption did not result in lichenification and was not fully responsive to corticosteroid ointment. Asthma lightened by treatment of inhalational steroids. Hypereosinophilia was detected at 5 years of age, at least 20% of white blood cells, and 44% at 8 years of age. At 10 years of age, she was diagnosed with anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-negative EGPA. The diagnosis was based on findings of eosinophil-infiltrating granulomatous vasculitis of the skin accompanied by notable peripheral blood eosinophilia, sinusitis, and pulmonary nodules on radiographic evaluation. Asymptomatic myocardial involvement was also detected utilizing dual perfusion and metabolic scintigraphy with 	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308336	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308336	asthma
Arerugi = [Allergy]	[DIFFERENCE BETWEEN STANDARDIZED MITE ANTIGEN AND HOUSE DUST EXTRACT IN RUSH SUBCUTANEOUS IMMUNOTHERAPY FOR CHILDREN].	Standardized house dust mite extract was more effective than non-standardized house dust extract for subcutaneous immunotherapy; however, the establishment of safer methods is warranted.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308334	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308334	asthma
Arerugi = [Allergy]	[ASTHMA PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT GUIDELINE 2018 (SECTIONS FOR ADULTS): FOCUSING ON THE TREATMENT OF SEVERE ASTHMA].	 	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31308332	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308332	asthma
European journal of internal medicine	Blood eosinophils as biomarkers of therapeutic response to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: Still work in progress.	Disease phenotyping is a key step towards an increasingly personalized approach to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), leading to a more precise assessment, treatment and definition of disease outcomes. The search for biomarkers able to guide the identification of COPD phenotypes are of great importance for both researchers and clinicians. However, while several biomarkers of inflammation [e.g., peripheral blood eosinophils and fractional expired nitric oxide] have been identified and applied in asthma, none has been successfully linked to discrete clinical parameters of COPD such as exacerbations, natural progression, and treatment response or mortality risk. Recently, several studies have shown that blood eosinophils are a potential biomarker for patient subset stratification in COPD therapy. Here we reviewed the value of blood eosinophils in predicting the response of COPD patients to treatment.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31307853	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307853	asthma
Journal of translational medicine	Smoking and microbiome in oral, airway, gut and some systemic diseases.	The human microbiome harbors a diverse array of microbes which establishes a mutually beneficial relation with the host in healthy conditions, however, the dynamic homeostasis is influenced by both host and environmental factors. Smoking contributes to modifications of the oral, lung and gut microbiome, leading to various diseases, such as periodontitis, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and cancers. However, the exact causal relationship between smoking and microbiome alteration remains to be further explored.	2019	eng	Review	England	31307469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307469	asthma
International immunopharmacology	Anti-inflammatory activity of SintMed65, an N-acylhydrazone derivative, in a mouse model of allergic airway inflammation.	Asthma is a chronic, complex and heterogeneous inflammatory illness, characterized by obstruction of the lower airways. About 334 million people worldwide suffer from asthma, and these estimates, as well as the severity of the disease, have increased in the last decades. Glucocorticoids are currently the most widely used drugs in the treatment and control of asthma symptoms, but their prolonged use can cause serious adverse effects. N-acylhydrazone derivatives have been tested in pre-clinical studies in models of inflammatory diseases. Here we tested SintMed65 (N'-[(1E)-3-(4-nitrophenylhydrazono)]-(2E)-propan-2-ylidene-3,5-dinitrobenzohydrazide), a compound belonging to a novel class of immunosuppressive drugs, in a mouse model of allergic airway inflammation. BALB/c mice were sensitized previously and challenged with ovalbumin for five consecutive days and SintMed65 treatment was performed orally 1 h prior to challenge with ovalbumin. Administration of SintMed65, as well as the reference drug dexamethasone, reduced cellularity and the number of eosinophils in the bronchoalveolar fluid (BALF). SintMed65 also reduced the production of Th2 cytokines IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13 in the BALF, and IL-4, IL-10 and CCL8 gene expression in lung, compared to vehicle-treated mice. Importantly, a reduction in the number of leukocytes and in the mucus production in lungs of SintMed65-treated mice was found, compared to the vehicle-treated group. In contrast, IgE production was not significantly altered after treatment with SintMed65. Our results demonstrate that compound SintMed65 possesses anti-inflammatory characteristics, suggesting its therapeutic potential for the treatment of allergic diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306982	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306982	asthma
International journal of pediatric otorhinolaryngology	Effect of intra-op morphine on children with OSA undergoing tonsillectomy.	Children with OSA who receive intra-op morphine have a longer LOS suggesting that its use should be examined more closely in this population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31306896	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306896	asthma
Fish & shellfish immunology	Plant extract-based diets differently modulate immune responses and resistance to bacterial infection in striped catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus).	A feeding trial was performed to compare the effects of five ethanol herbal extracts (bhumi amla, Phyllanthus amarus Schum and Thonn [Pa]; guava, Psidium guajava L. [Pg]; sensitive plant, Mimosa pudica L. [Mp]; neem, Azadirachta indica A. Juss [Ai] and asthma plant, Euphorbia hirta L. [Eh]) on the immune response and disease resistance against Edwardsiella ictaluri infection of striped catfish (Pangasianodon hypophthalmus). Fish were fed diets supplemented with two doses of each plant extract (0% [basal diet], 0.4% Eh [Eh0.4], 2.0% Eh [Eh2.0], 0.2% Pa [Pa0.2], 1.0% Pa [Pa1.0], 0.2% Pg [Pg0.2], 1.0% Pg [Pg1.0], 0.4% Mp [Mp0.4], 2.0% Mp [Mp2.0], 0.4% Ai [Ai0.4], 2.0% Ai [Ai2.0]) for 8 weeks. Results showed that hematological parameters (total red blood cells, white blood cells, lymphocytes, monocytes, and neutrophils) of fish fed extract-based diets were significantly higher than in those fed the control diet (p < 0.05) after 4 and 8 weeks. Plasma lysozyme activity increased in fish whose diets contained both doses of Eh (p < 0.05) in week 4 (W4), whereas lysozyme activity increased in fish fed 0.2% Pa and Pg, and 2.0% Ai and Eh (p < 0.05) in week 8 (W8). The lysozyme levels in skin mucus did not significantly differ between treatments (p > 0.05) in W4 and after the bacterial challenge test. At the end of the feeding trial, levels of ACH50 significantly increased in most of extract groups compared to the control group (p < 0.05). Total immunoglobulin increased considerably in both the plasma and skin mucus of fish fed extract-supplemented diets after 8 weeks. In addition, dietary supplementation with Pg, Mp, Pa0.2, Eh2.0, and Ai0.4 for 8 weeks considerably reduced the cumulative mortality against E. ictaluri infection in striped catfish. The results suggest that plant extracts possibly modulate the striped catfish immune response in a time and dose dependent manner. Specifically, diets enriched with extracts of P. guajava at 0.2 and 1.0%, or M. pudica at 2.0% for 8 weeks, have great potential for improving striped catfish health by enhancing the immune system and reducing mortality against bacterial challenges.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306761	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306761	asthma
Allergy	The first year of treatment predicts the prognosis of asthma over 25 years - A prospective study.	In adult-onset asthma, the level of FEV	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31306491	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306491	asthma
Journal of clinical gastroenterology	A Role for Alveolar Exhaled Nitric Oxide Measurement in the Diagnosis of Hepatopulmonary Syndrome.	HPS subjects have higher alveolar eNO than non-HPS subjects, levels normalize with liver transplantation. Applying eNO cutoff values may aid in HPS diagnosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306341	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306341	asthma
European annals of allergy and clinical immunology	Anxiety/depression changes are associated with improved asthma control perception in asthmatic adolescents after adequate management.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31305035	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305035	asthma
Ear, nose, & throat journal	Association of Toll-Like Receptor Polymorphisms With Nasal Polyposis.	Nasal polyposis is a disease characterized with chronic inflammation of the nasal mucosa. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are defined as essential receptors of the innate immune system and may play in the development of nasal polyposis. A total of 71 patients with nasal polyposis and 74 healthy controls were included in this study. Three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs); TLR2 (2258 A>G), TLR4 (896 A>G), and TLR4 (1196 C>T) were analyzed in all patients. The degree of pair-wise linkage disequilibrium and the genotype and haplotype analyses were conducted using regression in this logistic model and the Multifactor Dimensionality Reduction (MDR) software package was used to construct all possible interactions among different genotype variants belonging to the TLR gene. There was significant difference in genotype and allele frequencies of the TLR4 (1196 C>T) polymorphism between the nasal polyposis and control groups (0.017). Also, it was observed that the probability of nasal polyposis was 62.7% in the presence of TLR4 (1196 C>T) polymorphism with asthma (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304782	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304782	asthma
Acta neurologica Taiwanica	Epilepsy versus Asthma Perceptions among Preschool Teachers in Taiwan-Past versus Present.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	China (Republic : 1949- )	31304570	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304570	asthma
Forensic sciences research	Immune responses in fatalities involving opioids.	In some cases of fatalities involving opioid use, the concentrations of detected opioids are not in the toxic range. Immune reactions can be triggered by opioid use, suggesting that immune response may be a factor in these cases. Autopsy cases from 2002-2012 were reviewed. Persons with physical, microscopic or serum evidence of allergic reactions and opioid use at autopsy were compared to persons who used opioids but had no such signs. Overall, 49 persons were identified who had used opioids, of which five had evidence of immune response. A medical history of asthma was significantly more common in persons with signs of immune response (	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304448	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304448	asthma
NPJ digital medicine	Sociomarkers and biomarkers: predictive modeling in identifying pediatric asthma patients at risk of hospital revisits.	The importance of social components of health has been emphasized both in epidemiology and public health. This paper highlights the significant impact of social components on health outcomes in a novel way. Introducing the concept of sociomarkers, which are measurable indicators of social conditions in which a patient is embedded, we employed a machine learning approach that uses both biomarkers and sociomarkers to identify asthma patients at risk of a hospital revisit after an initial visit with an accuracy of 66%. The analysis has been performed over an integrated dataset consisting of individual-level patient information such as gender, race, insurance type, and age, along with ZIP code-level sociomarkers such as poverty level, blight prevalence, and housing quality. Using this uniquely integrated database, we then compare the traditional biomarker-based risk model and the sociomarker-based risk model. A biomarker-based predictive model yields an accuracy of 65% and the sociomarker-based model predicts with an accuracy of 61%. Without knowing specific symptom-related features, the sociomarker-based model can correctly predict two out of three patients at risk. We systematically show that sociomarkers play an important role in predicting health outcomes at the individual level in pediatric asthma cases. Additionally, by merging multiple data sources with detailed neighborhood-level data, we directly measure the importance of residential conditions for predicting individual health outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304329	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304329	asthma
NPJ digital medicine	From smartphone to EHR: a case report on integrating patient-generated health data.	Patient-generated health data (PGHD), collected from mobile apps and devices, represents an opportunity for remote patient monitoring and timely interventions to prevent acute exacerbations of chronic illness-if data are seen and shared by care teams. This case report describes the technical aspects of integrating data from a popular smartphone platform to a commonly used EHR vendor and explores the challenges and potential of this approach for disease management. Consented subjects using the Asthma Health app (built on Apple's ResearchKit platform) were able to share data on inhaler usage and peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) with a local pulmonologist who ordered this data on Epic's EHR. For users who had installed and activated Epic's patient portal (MyChart) on their iPhone and enabled sharing of health data between apps via HealthKit, the pulmonologist could review PGHD and, if necessary, make recommendations. Four patients agreed to share data with their pulmonologist, though only two patients submitted more than one data point across the 4.5-month trial period. One of these patients submitted 101 PEFR readings across 65 days; another submitted 24 PEFR and inhaler usage readings across 66 days. PEFR for both patients fell within predefined physiologic parameters, except once where a low threshold notification was sent to the pulmonologist, who responded with a telephone discussion and new e-prescription to address symptoms. This research describes the technical considerations and implementation challenges of using commonly available frameworks for sharing PGHD, for the purpose of remote monitoring to support timely care interventions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304305	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304305	asthma
Acute medicine & surgery	Methylxanthine use for acute asthma in the emergency department in Japan: a multicenter observational study.	In this multicenter study, approximately 6% of ED patients with acute asthma were treated with methylxanthines, with a wide variation across EDs. The number of annual ED patients with acute asthma was significantly associated with a lower likelihood of methylxanthine use, whereas having an ED asthma treatment protocol and systemic corticosteroid use in the ED were associated with a higher likelihood of methylxanthine treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304030	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304030	asthma
Allergy, asthma, and clinical immunology : official journal of the Canadian Society of Allergy and Clinical Immunology	Clinical and pulmonary function changes in cough variant asthma with small airway disease.	In our cohort, nearly half of the CVA population had small airway disease. Their demographic features, clinical characteristics, airway eosinophils and drug responsiveness were quite similar between two groups, which means these indices can not be used as markers to identify small airway obstruction. We found FEF	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303871	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303871	asthma
International journal of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease	Patient-reported outcomes of dual bronchodilator fixed-dose combination versus bronchodilator monotherapy in individuals with COPD.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31303751	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303751	asthma
Patient preference and adherence	The impact of personal and cultural beliefs on medication adherence of patients with chronic illnesses: a systematic review.	This review has evaluated the impact of personal and cultural factors on medication adherence and highlighted the gaps in literature regarding adherence. Further research is required to fully identify the associations between religious beliefs, control beliefs and illness knowledge and medication adherence.	2019	eng	Review	New Zealand	31303749	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303749	asthma
International journal of occupational medicine and environmental health	Respiratory health problems in adolescents living near main roads in the Upper Silesian industrial zone, Poland.	Results of the study suggest that children living in the area with intense traffic are more likely to develop respiratory disorders. Moreover, the vicinity of a main road as well as traffic intensity could be suitable in assessing the relationship between road transport and potential health problems among exposed inhabitants. Int J Occup Med Environ Health. 2019;32(4):553-67.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	31303647	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303647	asthma
Revue des maladies respiratoires	[Allergic respiratory diseases related to mould in the home].	Exposure to mould is a potential risk factor for asthma in both adults and children. In adult, the relation between exposure, sensitization and symptoms has been demonstrated in severe asthmatics sensitized to Alternaria. For children, exposure to mould in childhood is a risk factor for asthma in both atopic and non-atopic individuals. Exposure or sensitization to moulds are a risk factor for severe asthma and/or exacerbations in children. There appears to be a causal relationship between exposure and asthma. This link seems less significant in adults. However, in adults mould sensitive asthma seems to determine a phenotype of severe asthma associated with more marked obstructive lung disease. Moulds can stimulate either innate or the acquired immunity. They are responsible for a marked Th2 inflammation leading to more severe asthma. Besides the immunological mechanisms, toxic mechanisms can also intervene. It is therefore not correct to reduce the effect of moulds, particularly in respiratory symptoms, to only allergic mechanisms.	2019	fre	Review	France	31303366	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303366	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Prevalence of COPD among workers with work-related asthma.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303076	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303076	asthma
Swiss medical weekly	Chronic rhinosinusitis in unified airway disease: surfactant proteins as mediators of respiratory immunity.	CRS and asthma coexist and are interconnected. Therefore, management of CRS and asthma must be jointly carried out as one functional entity. SP-A and SP-D bridge the innate and adaptive immunity mechanisms of the sinonasal epithelium to bring together a well-orchestrated mechanism that effectively fights pathogens. The use of SP-A to ameliorate the innate immune responses in CRS is a new concept and is likely to lead to new horizons in CRS therapeutic regimens. &nbsp.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31302901	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302901	asthma
Sleep & breathing = Schlaf & Atmung	Exposure to intermittent hypoxia inhibits allergic airway inflammation in a murine model of asthma.	These results suggest that IH may not deteriorate the asthmatic condition in a murine model of asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302837	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302837	asthma
Respiratory medicine	Staphylococcus Aureus in chronic airway diseases: An overview.	This review investigates about the role of Staphylococcus Aureus (S. aureus) and S. aureus enterotoxins (SEs) in the pathogenesis of several chronic airway diseases. S. aureus is part of normal human flora and may colonize the skin and the upper airways. SEs acting as superantigens can induce an intense T cell activation and through the release of interleukin (IL) - 4, 5, and 13, can promote a polyclonal IgE response and eosinophilic inflammation. S. aureus can damage epithelial cells inducing the release of the so-called "alarmins" responsible of the activation of Type 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC-2) linked to an IL-5 mediated airway eosinophilic inflammation. SEs sensitization has been recently associated with the eosinophilic endotypes of both nasal polyps and late onset severe asthma. Studies investigating the effect of biological therapies in SEs sensitized patients should be performed in order to better define the role played by S. aureus in the different endotypes of severe asthma and/or chronic rhinosinusitis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302581	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302581	asthma
Respiratory medicine	Safety of tiotropium Respimat	NCT01634113, NCT01634139, NCT01634152, NCT01257230, NCT01277523, NCT01316380, NCT00350207, NCT01172808, NCT01172821, NCT01340209, NCT00772538, NCT00776984.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302579	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302579	asthma
BMC family practice	Difficult-to-treat and severe asthma in general practice: delivery and evaluation of an educational program.	This study suggests that an evidence-based educational program can improve GP knowledge, confidence and intended practice in managing patients with difficult-to-treat and severe asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301742	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301742	asthma
Folia medica	Pharmacoeconomics of Bronchial Asthma.	PE analyses provide the benefit of making cost consistent decisions in the field of asthma care. This review adds more data on the cost of current asthma treatment worldwide and in Bulgaria.	2019	eng	Review	Germany	31301669	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301669	asthma
Academic pediatrics	Perceptions of asthma and exercise, and associations with weight status and asthma morbidity in urban children.	Caregiver fear about asthma and misperceptions of exercise as a dangerous trigger for asthma should be addressed during health care visits with families of children with asthma and interventions including urban children with asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301420	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301420	asthma
The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Nasal polyps 15-lipoxygenase 1 promotes CCL26/Eotaxin3 expression through ERK activation.	15LO1 is increased in nasal polyp epithelial cells and contributes to CCL26 expression through ERK activation. 15LO1 could be considered a novel therapeutic target for CRSwNP.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301373	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301373	asthma
The clinical respiratory journal	Rural to urban migration contributes to the high burden of asthma in the urban area.	Rural-urban migrants in Brazil have more severe asthma than urban-born subjects. Our results suggest that rural-urban migration is associated with the high burden of asthma in the urban area. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301264	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301264	asthma
Clinical reviews in allergy & immunology	Immunologic Adverse Effects of Biologics for the Treatment of Atopy.	The use of biologic agents as therapies for atopic diseases such as asthma and atopic dermatitis has increased greatly in recent years. The biological agents used to treat atopic diseases are for the most part monoclonal antibodies that suppress the immune response and reduce inflammation by targeting particular cytokines or other molecules involved in Th1, Th2, or Th17 immune reactions. Various side effects and rare complications have been reported from these agents. In this review, we discuss mechanisms of various adverse effects for the biologic agents currently in use or in development for atopic and inflammatory diseases. Monoclonal antibodies targeting the Th1 and Th17 pathways have been associated with significant side effects, partially due to their ability to cause significant impairment in immune responses to pathogens because of the immunologic alterations that they produce. Biologicals targeting Th2-mediated inflammation have had fewer reported side effects, though many are new and emerging drugs whose adverse effects may remain to be fully elucidated with more use. Therefore, continued long-term safety monitoring is required. As with all therapies, the risks associated with side effects of biologics must be balanced against the benefits these drugs offer for treating atopic diseases. One of the most apparent benefits is the steroid-sparing effect of well-chosen biologic therapy used to treat severe atopic disease. In contrast with the quite favorable safety profile of currently available biologics that target the Th2-mediated immune response, chronic systemic corticosteroid use is associated with significant side effects, many of which impact the majority of patients who are placed on long-term steroid therapy.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31301006	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301006	asthma
Nature communications	The nasal methylome as a biomarker of asthma and airway inflammation in children.	The nasal cellular epigenome may serve as biomarker of airway disease and environmental response. Here we collect nasal swabs from the anterior nares of 547 children (mean-age 12.9 y), and measure DNA methylation (DNAm) with the Infinium MethylationEPIC BeadChip. We perform nasal Epigenome-Wide Association analyses (EWAS) of current asthma, allergen sensitization, allergic rhinitis, fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) and lung function. We find multiple differentially methylated CpGs (FDR < 0.05) and Regions (DMRs; ≥ 5-CpGs and FDR < 0.05) for asthma (285-CpGs), FeNO (8,372-CpGs; 191-DMRs), total IgE (3-CpGs; 3-DMRs), environment IgE (17-CpGs; 4-DMRs), allergic asthma (1,235-CpGs; 7-DMRs) and bronchodilator response (130-CpGs). Discovered DMRs annotated to genes implicated in allergic asthma, Th2 activation and eosinophilia (EPX, IL4, IL13) and genes previously associated with asthma and IgE in EWAS of blood (ACOT7, SLC25A25). Asthma, IgE and FeNO were associated with nasal epigenetic age acceleration. The nasal epigenome is a sensitive biomarker of asthma, allergy and airway inflammation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300640	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300640	asthma
Archives of disease in childhood	How fair is our service? Evaluating access to specialist paediatric care.	Local outpatient referrals broadly reflected the socioeconomic distribution, although not necessarily the distribution of need, of our local population. A relatively high proportion of patients in tertiary clinics were from more affluent postcodes, highlighting the need for referral inequalities to be evaluated across networks or regions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300409	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300409	asthma
Respiratory research	Rhinovirus replication and innate immunity in highly differentiated human airway epithelial cells.	These data challenge a number of aspects of dogma generated from studies in HeLa cells and emphasize the importance of appropriate cell context when studying HRV infections.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299975	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299975	asthma
Environmental research	Food as medicine: Selenium enriched lentils offer relief against chronic arsenic poisoning in Bangladesh.	Chronic arsenic (As) exposure is a major environmental threat to human health affecting >100 million people worldwide. Low blood selenium (Se) increases the risk of As-induced health problems. Our aim was to reduce As toxicity through a naturally Se-rich lentil diet. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-control trial in Bangladesh, 405 participants chronically exposed to As were enrolled. The intervention arm (Se-group) consumed Se-rich lentils (55 μg Se/day); the control arm received lentils of similar nutrient profile except with low Se (1.5 μg Se/day). Anthropometric measurements, blood, urine and stool samples, were taken at baseline, 3 and 6 months; hair at baseline and 6 months after intervention. Morbidity data were collected fortnightly. Measurements included total As in all biological samples, As metabolites in urine, and total Se in blood and urine. Intervention with Se-rich lentils resulted in higher urinary As excretion (p = 0.001); increased body mass index (p ≤ 0.01), and lower incidence of asthma (p = 0.05) and allergy (p = 0.02) compared to the control group. The Se-group demonstrated increased excretion of urinary As metabolite, dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) at 6 months compared to control group (p = 0.008). Consuming Se-rich lentils can increase As excretion and improve the health indicators in the presence of continued As exposure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31299617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299617	asthma
Environment international	Development of outcome-specific criteria for study evaluation in systematic reviews of epidemiology studies.	Outcome-specific criteria are an important part of a systematic review and will facilitate study evaluations by epidemiologists with experience in evaluating studies using systematic review methods who may not have extensive discipline-specific experience in the outcomes being reviewed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31299560	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299560	asthma
Respiratory medicine	Scottish consensus statement on the role of FeNO in adult asthma.	Fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO) is the only available point of care test to assess type-2 inflammation in asthma. In making a diagnosis of asthma, FeNO should be used together with blood eosinophils and spirometry, alongside a history. Raised FeNO in conjunction with blood eosinophilia are treatable traits of type 2 inflammation in asthma, which in turn may guide personalised management. A FeNO suppression test can be used to assess adherence and device use with ICS therapy. Furthermore FeNO may be used to provide feedback to patients in response to ICS, especially when spirometry is normal. FeNO may facilitate appropriate referral to secondary care for more definitive specialist investigations. In summary, FeNO is cost effective in the diagnosis and management of asthma and should be incorporated into primary and secondary care as part of routine clinical practice.	2019	eng	Review	England	31299469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299469	asthma
Journal of affective disorders	Suicidality among patients with asthma: A systematic review and meta-analysis.	Patients with asthma have a significantly increased risk of suicidal ideation, suicide attempts and suicide mortality. Clinical physicians should pay more attention to the increased risk of suicidality in asthmatics, screen for these suicidal thoughts and behaviors, and make appropriate mental health referrals when necessary.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31299440	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299440	asthma
The journal of allergy and clinical immunology. In practice	How maternal BMI modifies the impact of personalised asthma management in pregnancy.	The benefits of F	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299352	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299352	asthma
The journal of allergy and clinical immunology. In practice	Small Airway Dysfunction by Impulse Oscillometry in Symptomatic Patients with Preserved Pulmonary Function.	Patients with respiratory symptoms and PPF may have SAD that can be identified with the aid of IOS in addition to spirometry.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299351	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299351	asthma
Cellular physiology and biochemistry : international journal of experimental cellular physiology, biochemistry, and pharmacology	Androgen Receptor-Mediated Regulation of Intracellular Calcium in Human Airway Smooth Muscle Cells.	Our data show AR expression is increased in female ASM with asthma, but has retained functionality that could be used to reduce [Ca	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31299143	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299143	asthma
Pediatric allergy and immunology : official publication of the European Society of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology	Single and Multiple Time-point Allergic Sensitization during Childhood and Risk of Asthma by Age 13.	Sensitization to multiple allergens at single time-points, increasing sIgE levels and SPT wheal sizes, and persistent sensitization during childhood were associated with increased risk of asthma at age 13, suggesting the use of quantitative and repetitive sensitization measurements when assessing risk of developing asthma. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299117	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299117	asthma
Aging	Ambient particulate matter attenuates Sirtuin1 and augments SREBP1-PIR axis to induce human pulmonary fibroblast inflammation: molecular mechanism of microenvironment associated with COPD.	Evidences have shown a strong link between particulate matter (PM) and increased risk in human mortality and morbidity, including asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), respiratory infection, and lung cancer. However, the underlying toxicologic mechanisms remain largely unknown. Utilizing PM-treated human pulmonary fibroblasts (HPF) models, we analyzed gene expression microarray data and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) to identify that the transcription factor 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299012	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299012	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Comparison of Serum Eosinophil-Derived Neurotoxin Levels between Wheezing and Non-wheezing Groups in Children with Respiratory Tract Infection.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298976	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298976	asthma
Annals of the American Thoracic Society	Effectiveness and Safety of Inhaled Corticosteroids in Older Individuals with COPD and/or Asthma: A Population Study.	ICS was associated with fewer obstructive lung disease hospitalizations in older adults with asthma and concurrent asthma and COPD but had little impact on obstructive lung disease and pneumonia hospitalizations in those with COPD alone.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298938	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298938	asthma
American journal of respiratory cell and molecular biology	Give Me Some Room to Breathe! Can Targeting SPHK2 Reduce Airway Smooth Muscle Thickening in Asthma?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298926	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298926	asthma
American journal of respiratory and critical care medicine	Prognostic and predictive value of blood eosinophil count, fractional exhaled nitric oxide and their combination in severe asthma: a post-hoc analysis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298922	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298922	asthma
Pediatric pulmonology	SERPINA1 gene polymorphisms in a population-based ALSPAC cohort.	Analyzed SNPs in SERPINA1 are not associated with wheezing/asthma phenotypes. Only rs28929474, the most common pathologic SNP (Pi*Z) in the SERPINA1 gene, might be associated with a risk of developing school-age asthma without exhibiting preschool wheeze.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298815	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298815	asthma
Pediatric pulmonology	Healthcare utilization in infants and toddlers with asthma-like symptoms.	Asthma-like symptoms are common in infants. Health care utilization is very high and physician practices should be reassessed. Following controller therapy, health care utilization decreased. Yet controllers were prescribed in only a minority of eligible children.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298808	asthma
Allergy	Treatment of allergic disease with nanoemulsion adjuvant vaccines.	The majority of allergic diseases, including asthma, atopic dermatitis and food allergy, are caused by allergen-specific IgE production and Th2-polarized immune responses. Allergic sensitization is caused by DC activation of naïve T cells to generate and expand Th2-biased cellular immune responses, resulting in the production of cytokines such as IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13. Th2 cytokines induce the generation and expansion of allergen-specific IgE by B cells as well as accumulation of mast cells in tissues (Figure 1). Because of the central role Th2 immune responses play in the genesis of allergic disease, it is important to focus on therapeutic approaches capable of suppressing or redirecting these Th2 immune responses. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31298741	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298741	asthma
Allergy	Factors associated with well-controlled asthma - a cross-sectional study.	 	2019	eng	Letter	Denmark	31298735	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298735	asthma
Journal of medical economics	A budget impact analysis of budesonide/formoterol in patients with mild asthma in Egypt.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298593	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298593	asthma
European review for medical and pharmacological sciences	Effects of miR-26a/miR-146a/miR-31 on airway inflammation of asthma mice and asthma children.	MiR-26a, miR-146a, and miR-31 are involved in asthma progression mainly through regulating inflammatory factors and cells.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31298396	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298396	asthma
Current health sciences journal	The Prevalence of Allergic Rhinitis toAmbrosia Elatior in OlteniaArea and the Association with Allergic Conjunctivitis or Asthma.	Introduction-Ambrosia elatior pollen sensitivity can lead to respiratory diseases such as rhinitis, asthma and allergic conjunctivitis. Ambrosia is quite an important source of pollen and it is thought to be an invasive plant. Sensitivity prevalence to Ambrosia pollen varies from one country to another. The aim of the present study was to assess the prevalence of pollen allergic rhinitis caused by Ambrosia elatior in the Oltenia area located in the south west part of Romania. Material and method - The study was carried on 1004 patients with allergic rhinitis. All the patients experienced symptoms of allergic rhinitis, associated with /without conjunctivitis or asthma, and positive skin tests to aeroallergens. Results - In the group under study, 48,80% of the cases are sensitized to Ambrosia elatior pollen. The number of patients with allergic rhinitis and pollen sensitivity to Ambrosia is higher in 2014-2015 compared to 2012, i.e. 282 cases and the symptoms are moderate-severe. Conclusions - Ambrosia elatior pollen has become a major source of aeroallergen in Oltenia area.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Romania	31297265	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297265	asthma
The Korean journal of physiology & pharmacology : official journal of the Korean Physiological Society and the Korean Society of Pharmacology	Magnolol exerts anti-asthmatic effects by regulating Janus kinase-signal transduction and activation of transcription and Notch signaling pathways and modulating Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokines in ovalbumin-sensitized asthmatic mice.	Allergic asthma, is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the airway presenting with airway hyperresponsiveness and airway remodelling. T helper cells-derived cytokines are critically associated with asthma pathogenesis. Janus kinase-signal transduction and activation of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling is found to be involved in asthma. Magnolol is a plant-derived bioactive compound with several pharmacological effects. The study aimed to assess the effects of magnolol in ovalbumin (OVA)-induced asthmatic model. BALB/c mice were sensitized and challenged with OVA. Magnolol (12.5, 25, or 50 mg/kg body weight) was administered to separate groups of animals. Dexamethasone was used as the positive control. Cellular infiltration into the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were reduced on magnolol treatment. The levels of Th2 and Th17 cytokines were reduced with noticeably raised levels of interferon gamma. Lung function was improved effectively along with restoration of bronchial tissue architecture. OVA-specific immunoglobulin E levels in serum and BALF were decreased by magnolol. Magnolol reduced Th17 cell population and effectively modulated the JAK-STAT and Notch 1 signaling. The results suggest the promising use of magnolol in therapy for allergic asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31297009	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297009	asthma
Canadian journal of respiratory therapy : CJRT = Revue canadienne de la therapie respiratoire : RCTR	Patterns of bronchial challenge testing in Canada.	These findings demonstrate that provinces vary in their use of BCT. This result seems to stem, at least in part, from differences in the prevalence of respirologists. Interestingly, geographic region appears to wield a strong influence; in the correlation between number of tests and number of respirologists, physicians from Western provinces (i.e., Alberta, Saskatchewan, and British Columbia) administered fewer tests than their Eastern colleagues. Given the association between inadequate application of BCT and misdiagnosis of asthma, physicians should pay special attention to the Canadian guidelines when considering an asthma diagnosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31297005	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297005	asthma
Scientific reports	Soluble Wood Smoke Extract Promotes Barrier Dysfunction in Alveolar Epithelial Cells through a MAPK Signaling Pathway.	Wildfire smoke induces acute pulmonary distress and is of particular concern to risk groups such as the sick and elderly. Wood smoke (WS) contains many of the same toxic compounds as those found in cigarette smoke (CS) including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, and free radicals. CS is a well-established risk factor for respiratory diseases such as asthma and COPD. Limited studies investigating the biological effects of WS on the airway epithelium have been performed. Using a cell culture-based model, we assessed the effects of a WS-infused solution on alveolar epithelial barrier function, cell migration, and survival. The average geometric mean of particles in the WS was 178 nm. GC/MS analysis of the WS solution identified phenolic and cellulosic compounds. WS exposure resulted in a significant reduction in barrier function, which peaked after 24 hours of continuous exposure. The junctional protein E-cadherin showed a prominent reduction in response to increasing concentrations of WS. Furthermore, WS significantly repressed cell migration following injury to the cell monolayer. There was no difference in cell viability following WS exposure. Mechanistically, WS exposure induced activation of the p44/42, but not p38, MAPK signaling pathway, and inhibition of p44/42 phosphorylation prevented the disruption of barrier function and loss of E-cadherin staining. Thus, WS may contribute to the breakdown of alveolar structure and function through a p44/42 MAPK-dependent pathway and may lead to the development and/or exacerbation of respiratory pathologies with chronic exposure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296909	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296909	asthma
NPJ primary care respiratory medicine	Real-life prescribing of asthmatic treatments in UK general practice over time using 2014 BTS/SIGN steps.	The 2014 British Thoracic Society (BTS) and Scottish Intercollegiate Guideline Network (SIGN) guidelines recommend a stepwise approach to asthma management. We investigated the management of asthma in primary care in the UK to understand how real-world practice compares with BTS/SIGN guidelines. Asthma patients were identified from the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink from September 2006 to August 2016. Aims were to classify patients according to BTS/SIGN steps, describe the proportion of patients transitioning between steps and describe patient demographics and clinical characteristics per group. Overall, 647,308 patients with asthma were identified (40,096 aged 5-11 years; 607,212 aged 12-80 years). Most treated patients were in step 1 or 2 (88.3% of children/67.5% of adults in December 2007; 83.0% of children/67.0% of adults in June 2016). Most patients remained within their treatment step within a 6-month interval (>78% of children and adults throughout the study duration). The proportion of patients stepping up and down reduced from the beginning of the study, although stepping down to step 1 was relatively common in both adults and children. Few patients had a recorded asthma review in the year before reference date (18.8% of children and 14.8% of adults). Although prescribing patterns meant that most patients remained within their treatment step throughout the study, we cannot be sure that this was because their disease was truly stable. The small proportion of patients stepping up/down and the lack of recorded asthma review suggest that patients may not be treated in accordance with BTS/SIGN guidelines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296867	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296867	asthma
NPJ primary care respiratory medicine	Adherence to guideline recommendations for asthma care in community pharmacies: actual and needed performance.	Pharmaceutical care guidelines aim to provide recommendations for pharmaceutical care, reduce unwanted pharmacy practice variation and ultimately improve the quality of healthcare. This study evaluated community pharmacists' adherence to recommendations for the provision of care to asthma patients with first dispensing and follow-up refill encounters in The Netherlands. Data were pharmacists' self-assessment of adherence to guideline recommendations, independent observations of dispensing encounters and a nationwide questionnaire on pharmacists' views on the desirable (clinical) necessity of applying guideline recommendations to their patient population. The 21 pharmacists who performed self-assessment judged their adherence concerning inhalation instructions as high. The lowest scores were reported for recommendations to collect additional information on the type of lung disease and for asking patients' expectations, wishes and concerns. Sixty-eight dispensing encounters were observed. In 83% of the 35 first dispensing observations, inhalation instruction was provided. This percentage was lower (62%) at refill dispensings. During all encounters, pharmacy staff seldom explored patients' perceptions or responded to patients' expectations, wishes and concerns. One hundred and four pharmacists completed the feasibility questionnaire. Pharmacists judged that all patients should receive inhalation instruction at first dispensing. They regarded it necessary to check on patients' expectations, wishes and concerns regarding the treatment for only up to 70% of the patients. More efforts on guideline implementation are needed, especially on follow-up dispensings and on gaining relevant information from patients and other healthcare professionals. Pharmacists still have opportunities to grow in applying a patient-tailored approach and exploring patients' individual needs, rather than providing practical information.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296863	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296863	asthma
Postgraduate medical journal	Clinical utility of ultrahigh fractional exhaled nitric oxide in predicting bronchial hyperresponsiveness in patients with suspected asthma.	Ultrahigh FeNO correlates with BHR and could serve as a practical alternative to methacholine challenge to support an asthma diagnosis in patients with suspected asthma in primary care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296792	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296792	asthma
BMJ case reports	A challenging diagnosis of MPO-C-ANCA EGPA.	Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) is a multisystemic small-vessel vasculitic disease that can present with positive MPO-P-ANCA (myeloperoxidase-perinuclear-anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody). It is a rare condition that is difficult to diagnose. We present the case of a 64-year-old man with late-onset adult asthma and treated nasopharyngeal carcinoma who initially presented to us with proximal myopathy. Thereafter, he developed a constellation of fleeting symptoms which included rhinosinusitis, mononeuritis multiplex, skin vasculitis and arthritis. Blood investigations showed that he had eosinophilia, and skin biopsy demonstrated dermal vasculitis with eosinophils. He was found to be MPO-C-ANCA positive, and although initially thought to have granulomatosis with polyangiitis, the diagnosis was later revised to EGPA. This case highlights the diagnostic challenges with atypical presentations of EGPA and also presents a rare case of positive MPO-C-ANCA that has never been described in EGPA before.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296634	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296634	asthma
Journal of microbiology, immunology, and infection = Wei mian yu gan ran za zhi	Antibiotic exposure and asthma development in children with allergic rhinitis.	Preceding 5-year antibiotic exposure, particularly to penicillin group of amoxicillin and macrolides, is associated with the risk of asthma development before age 12 in AR children.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296483	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296483	asthma
Advances in immunology	Airway mycosis in allergic airway disease.	The allergic airway diseases, including chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS), asthma, allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis (ABPM) and many others, comprise a heterogeneous collection of inflammatory disorders affecting the upper and lower airways and lung parenchyma that represent the most common chronic diseases of humanity. In addition to their shared tissue tropism, the allergic airway diseases are characterized by a distinct pattern of inflammation involving the accumulation of eosinophils, type 2 macrophages, innate lymphoid cells type 2 (ILC2), IgE-secreting B cells, and T helper type 2 (Th2) cells in airway tissues, and the prominent production of type 2 cytokines including interleukin (IL-) 33, IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, and many others. These factors and related inflammatory molecules induce characteristic remodeling and other changes of the airways that include goblet cell metaplasia, enhanced mucus secretion, smooth muscle hypertrophy, tissue swelling and polyp formation that account for the major clinical manifestations of nasal obstruction, headache, hyposmia, cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, wheezing, and, in the most severe cases of lower airway disease, death due to respiratory failure or disseminated, systemic disease. The syndromic nature of the allergic airway diseases that now include many physiological variants or endotypes suggests that distinct endogenous or environmental factors underlie their expression. However, findings from different perspectives now collectively link these disorders to a single infectious source, the fungi, and a molecular pathogenesis that involves the local production of airway proteinases by these organisms. In this review, we discuss the evidence linking fungi and their proteinases to the surprisingly wide variety of chronic airway and systemic disorders and the immune pathogenesis of these conditions as they relate to environmental fungi. We further discuss the important implications these new findings have for the diagnosis and future therapy of these common conditions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296304	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296304	asthma
Advances in immunology	Deconstructing the sex bias in allergy and autoimmunity: From sex hormones and beyond.	Men and women differ in their susceptibility to develop autoimmunity and allergy but also in their capacity to cope with infections. Mechanisms responsible for this sexual dimorphism are still poorly documented and probably multifactorial. This review discusses the recent development in our understanding of the cell-intrinsic actions of biological factors linked to sex, sex hormones and sex chromosome complement, on immune cells, which may account for the sex differences in the enhanced susceptibility of women to develop immunological disorders, such as allergic asthma or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We choose to more specifically discuss the impact of sex hormones on the development and function of immune cell populations directly involved in type-2 immunity, and the role of the X-linked Toll like receptor 7 (TLR7) in anti-viral immunity and in SLE. We will also elaborate on the recent evidence demonstrating that TLR7 escapes from X chromosome inactivation in the immune cells of women, and how this may contribute to endow woman immune system with enhanced responsiveness to RNA-virus and susceptibility to SLE.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296302	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296302	asthma
Advances in immunology	The airway epithelium in asthma.	Asthma is a genetically and phenotypically complex disease that has a major impact on global health. Signs and symptoms of asthma are caused by the obstruction of airflow through the airways. The epithelium that lines the airways plays a major role in maintaining airway patency and in host defense. The epithelium initiates responses to inhaled or aspirated substances, including allergens, viruses, and bacteria, and epithelial-derived cytokines are important in the recruitment and activation of immune cells in the airway. Changes in the structure and function of the airway epithelium are a prominent feature of asthma. Approximately half of individuals with asthma have evidence of active type 2 immune responses in the airway. In these individuals, epithelial cytokines promote type 2 responses, and responses to type 2 cytokines result in increased epithelial mucus production and other effects that cause airway obstruction. Recent work also implicates other epithelial responses, including interleukin-17, interferon and ER stress responses, that may contribute to asthma pathogenesis and provide new targets for therapy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31296301	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296301	asthma
African journal of primary health care & family medicine	Rural-urban health disparities among older adults in South Africa.	 There are some rural-urban health disparities in South Africa, that is, urban dwellers had a higher prevalence of diabetes, edentulism and cognitive functioning than rural ones. Understanding these rural-urban health variations may help in developing better strategies to improve health across geolocality in South Africa.	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31296012	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296012	asthma
Epidemiologia e prevenzione	[SENTIERI: Epidemiological Study of Residents in National Priority Contaminated Sites. Fifth Report].	The main findings of SENTIERI Project have been the detection of excesses for the diseases which showed an a priori epidemiological evidence of a causal association with the environmental exposures specific for each considered NPCS. These observations are valuable within public health, because they contribute to priority health promotion activities. Looking ahead, the health benefits of an improved environmental quality might be appreciated in terms of reduction of the occurrence of adverse health effects attributable to each Site major pollutant agents. Due to the methodological approach of the present study, it was not possible to adjust for several confounding factors reported to be risk factors for the studied diseases (e.g., smoking, alcohol consumption, obesity). Even if excesses of mortality, hospitalization, cancer incidence, and prevalence of congenital anomalies were found in several NPCSs, the study design and the multifactorial aetiology of the considered diseases do not permit, for all of them, to draw conclusions in terms of causal links with environmental contamination. Moreover, it must be taken into consideration that economic factors and the availability of health services may also play a relevant role in a diseases outcome. A few observations regarding some methodological limitations of SENTIERI Project should be made. There is not a uniform environmental characterisation of the studied NPCSs in term of quality and detection of the pollutants, because this information is present in different databases which at present are not adequately connected. Moreover, the recognition of a contaminated site as a National Priority Site is based on soil and groundwater pollution, and the available information on air quality is currently sparse and not homogenous. Another limitation, in term of statistical power, is the small population size of many NPCSs and the low frequency of several health outcomes. A special caution must be paid in data interpretation when considering the correspondence between the contaminated areas and the municipality boundaries, as they do not always coincide perfectly: in some cases, a small municipality with a large industrial site, while in other settings only a part of the municipality is exposed to the sources of pollution. Furthermore, all available health information systems are currently accessible at municipality level. The real breakthrough is essentially comprised of the development and fostering of a networking system involving all local health authorities and regional environmental protection agencies operating in the areas under study. The possibility to integrate the geographic approach of SENTIERI Project with a set of ad hoc analytic epidemiological investigations, such as residential cohort studies, case control studies, children health surveys, biomonitoring surveys, and with socioepidemiological studies, might greatly contribute to the identification of health priorities for environmental remediation activities. Finally, as discussed in the last section of the report, there is a need to adopt, in each NPCS, a two-way oriented communication plan involving public health authorities, scientific community, and resident population, taking into account that the history, the cultural frame and the network of relationships specific of each local context play a major role in the risk perception perspective.	2019	ita	Journal Article	Italy	31295974	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295974	asthma
International journal of molecular sciences	Mast Cells in Cardiovascular Disease: From Bench to Bedside.	Mast cells are pluripotent leukocytes that reside in the mucosa and connective tissue. Recent studies show an increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease among patients with mastocytosis, which is a hematological disease that is characterized by the accumulation of mast cells due to clonal proliferation. This association suggests an important role for mast cells in cardiovascular disease. Indeed, the evidence establishing the contribution of mast cells to the development and progression of atherosclerosis is continually increasing. Mast cells may contribute to plaque formation by stimulating the formation of foam cells and causing a pro-inflammatory micro-environment. In addition, these cells are able to promote plaque instability by neo-vessel formation and also by inducing intraplaque hemorrhage. Furthermore, mast cells appear to stimulate the formation of fibrosis after a cardiac infarction. In this review, the available data on the role of mast cells in cardiovascular disease are summarized, containing both in vitro research and animal studies, followed by a discussion of human data on the association between cardiovascular morbidity and diseases in which mast cells are important: Kounis syndrome, mastocytosis and allergy.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31295950	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295950	asthma
Environment international	Classroom indoor PM	Children spend over 6 h a day in schools and have higher asthma morbidity from school environmental exposures. The present study aims to determine indoor and outdoor possible sources affecting indoor PM	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31295642	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295642	asthma
Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology	Influence of prolonged treatment with omalizumab on the development of solid epithelial cancer in patients with atopic asthma and chronic idiopathic urticaria: A systematic review and meta-analysis.	There is insufficient evidence to determine whether long-term treatment with omalizumab influences development or progression of solid epithelial cancer in these patient populations. PROSPERO registration CRD42018082211. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31295369	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295369	asthma
Archives of physiology and biochemistry	A genetic variation in CHI3L1 is associated with bronchial asthma.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31295039	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295039	asthma
Respirology (Carlton, Vic.)	Inhaler device use: Should we just forgo the detail and go for the 'big picture' approach?	 	2019	eng	Editorial	Australia	31294528	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294528	asthma
Health literacy research and practice	Health Literacy and Income Mediate Racial/Ethnic Asthma Disparities.	Using advanced statistical methods, this study suggests racial/ethnic differences in several asthma outcomes are largely due to effects of health literacy and income. Interventions to improve racial/ethnic asthma disparities should target health literacy and income barriers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294300	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294300	asthma
Health literacy research and practice	Patient and Professional Perspectives on Nutrition in Chronic Respiratory Disease Self-Management: Reflections on Nutrition and Food Literacies.	Growing evidence supporting the role of diet in chronic disease calls for more attention to nutrition literacy. This study explored patient and key informant viewpoints on engaging with nutrition information in self-management of chronic lung disease. Findings suggest patients encounter many challenges in accessing, understanding, and acting on relevant nutrition information.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31294292	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294292	asthma
Frontiers in pediatrics	Asthma in Children and Adults-What Are the Differences and What Can They Tell us About Asthma?	Asthma varies considerably across the life course. Childhood asthma is known for its overall high prevalence with a male predominance prior to puberty, common remission, and rare mortality. Adult asthma is known for its female predominance, uncommon remission, and unusual mortality. Both childhood and adult asthma have variable presentations, which are described herein. Childhood asthma severity is associated with duration of asthma symptoms, medication use, lung function, low socioeconomic status, racial/ethnic minorities, and a neutrophilic phenotype. Adult asthma severity is associated with increased IgE, elevated FeNO, eosinophilia, obesity, smoking, and low socioeconomic status. Adult onset disease is associated with more respiratory symptoms and asthma medication use despite higher prebronchodilator FEV1/FVC. There is less quiescent disease in adult onset asthma and it appears to be less stable than childhood-onset disease with more relapses and less remissions.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31294006	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294006	asthma
Frontiers in genetics	Identification of Novel Biomarkers for Drug Hypersensitivity After Sequencing of the Promoter Area in 16 Genes of the Vitamin D Pathway and the High-Affinity IgE Receptor.	The prevalence of allergic diseases and drug hypersensitivity reactions (DHRs) during recent years is increasing. Both, allergic diseases and DHRs seem to be related to an interplay between environmental factors and genetic susceptibility. In recent years, a large effort in the elucidation of the genetic mechanisms involved in these disorders has been made, mostly based on case-control studies, and typically focusing on isolated SNPs. These studies provide a limited amount of information, which now can be greatly expanded by the complete coverage that Next Generation Sequencing techniques offer. In this study, we analyzed the promoters of sixteen genes related to the Vitamin D pathway and the high-affinity IgE receptor, including 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31293618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293618	asthma
Frontiers in immunology	Natural Killer Cells in the Lungs.	The lungs, a special site that is frequently challenged by tumors, pathogens and other environmental insults, are populated by large numbers of innate immune cells. Among these, natural killer (NK) cells are gaining increasing attention. Recent studies have revealed that NK cells are heterogeneous populations consisting of distinct subpopulations with diverse characteristics, some of which are determined by their local tissue microenvironment. Most current information about NK cells comes from studies of NK cells from the peripheral blood of humans and NK cells from the spleen and bone marrow of mice. However, the functions and phenotypes of lung NK cells differ from those of NK cells in other tissues. Here, we provide an overview of human and mouse lung NK cells in the context of homeostasis, pathogenic infections, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung cancer, mainly focusing on their phenotype, function, frequency, and their potential role in pathogenesis or immune defense. A comprehensive understanding of the biology of NK cells in the lungs will aid the development of NK cell-based immunotherapies for the treatment of lung diseases.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31293580	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293580	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	DuoResp	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31293211	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293211	asthma
Food & function	Hydroxysafflor yellow A (HSYA) targets the platelet-activating factor (PAF) receptor and inhibits human bronchial smooth muscle activation induced by PAF.	Hydroxysafflor yellow A (HSYA) is the main active ingredient of edible plant safflower. HSYA has demonstrated anti-inflammatory effects. The inflammatory response is the key mechanism responsible for asthma, and the pro-inflammatory platelet-activating factor (PAF) is known to play a role in the pathology of bronchial asthma. In this study, we stimulated human bronchial smooth muscle cells (HBSMCs) with PAF and examined the effects of HSYA on the resulting asthma-related process. PAF stimulation induced HBSMC activation, induced proliferation, increased expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, and tumor necrosis factor-α, and activated asthma-related signaling pathways. All these effects were significantly inhibited by treatment with HSYA (9, 27, 81 μmol L-1). The effects of HSYA were prevented by the addition of a PAF receptor (PAFR) antagonist or by PAFR gene silencing with small interfering RNA. These results suggest that HSYA may inhibit PAF-induced activation of HBSMCs by targeting the PAFR. Overall, these findings provide evidence that HSYA can be applied as a potential therapeutic agent in the treatment of bronchial asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292579	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292579	asthma
BMJ open	Predicting asthma attacks in primary care: protocol for developing a machine learning-based prediction model.	Permissions for the ALHS project were obtained from the South East Scotland Research Ethics Committee 02 [16/SS/0130] and the Public Benefit and Privacy Panel for Health and Social Care (1516-0489). Permissions for the SIVE II project were obtained from the Privacy Advisory Committee (National Services NHS Scotland) [68/14] and the National Research Ethics Committee West Midlands-Edgbaston [15/WM/0035]. The subsequent research paper will be submitted for publication to a peer-reviewed journal and code scripts used for all components of the data cleaning, compiling, and analysis will be made available in the open source GitHub website (https://github.com/hollytibble).	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292179	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292179	asthma
BMJ (Clinical research ed.)	Health outcomes of young children born to mothers who received 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccination during pregnancy: retrospective cohort study.	No associations were observed between exposure to pH1N1 influenza vaccine during pregnancy and most five year pediatric health outcomes. Residual confounding may explain the small associations observed with increased asthma and reduced gastrointestinal infections. These outcomes should be assessed in future studies.	2019	eng	Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't	England	31292120	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292120	asthma
Acta medica portuguesa	Asthma in The Elderly: The Sum is Greater Than the Parts.	 	2019	eng	Letter	Portugal	31292032	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292032	asthma
Respiratory research	Do blood eosinophils strictly reflect airway inflammation in COPD? Comparison with asthmatic patients.	Blood eosinophils correlated with sputum eosinophils to a lesser degree in COPD than in asthmatic patients. Older age, high blood eosinophils and hypertension affected the correlation between blood and sputum eosinophils, more studies are needed to evaluate the role of other cardiac comobidities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291952	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291952	asthma
Current pharmaceutical design	Active Nano-targeting of Macrophages.	Macrophages play a role in almost every disease such as cancer, infections, injuries, metabolic and inflammatory diseases and are becoming an attractive therapeutic target. However, understanding macrophage diversity, tissue distribution and plasticity will help in defining precise targeting strategies and effective therapies. Active targeting of macrophages using nanoparticles for therapeutic purposes is still at its infancy but holds promises since macrophages have shown high specific uptake of nanoparticles. Here we highlight recent progress in active nanotechnology-based systems gaining pivotal roles to target diverse macrophage subsets in diseased tissues.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United Arab Emirates	31291874	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291874	asthma
Innate immunity	Regulation of lung immunity by dendritic cells: Implications for asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and infectious disease.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291810	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291810	asthma
Clinical and experimental allergy : journal of the British Society for Allergy and Clinical Immunology	Do we need more proofs for not using the same device for several subsequent skin prick tests?	Skin prick tests (SPT) represent a major tool for diagnosing IgE-mediated hypersensitivity. When improperly performed, SPT can lead to false-positive (FP) or false-negative results. Contamination of the instrument by another allergen extract, when using a single device whiped between tests, is known to induce FP results. Our study was conducted in order to establish the prevalence of FP when using the same SPT tool wiped between SPT, performed with four different devices. We further searched for the risk factors of eliciting a FP result and analyzed the possible correlation between the diameters of subsequent SPT results. Patients with rhinitis and/or asthma to Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus (Der p) or Grass Pollens were studied. Skin prick tests were performed by two trained investigators, with the 23 G needle, Stallergenes Greer Lancet, ALK Lancet and Stallerpoint®, respectively. The device was wiped between each test either with dry cotton wool or with cotton wool moistened in 75% alcohol. Allergen solution and negative controls (negCTRL) were used in two different sequences (allergen followed by five negative controls or allergen and negative control used alternately). Thirty-six patients sensitized to Der p (51.4%) and thirty-four patients sensitized to Grass Pollens (48.6%) were studied. Whatever the device used, between 50 and 66.6% of patients presented at least one FP result to the first SPT with a negCTRL, following an allergen SPT and up to 6% of patients when pricking down to the fifth negCTRL. No unique risk factor for FP results with the four devices was found. Correlations between the diameters of the reactions at SPT site (whether with the allergen or negCTRL) were mostly weak to moderate (ρ<0.5). Using the same 23G Needle, Stallergenes Greer Lancet, ALK Lancet and Stallerpoint® for performing several consecutive SPT is significantly associated with an unacceptable rate of FP results. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31291479	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291479	asthma
Cadernos de saude publica	Health profile differences between recipients and non-recipients of the Brazilian Income Transfer Program in a low-income population.	We investigated the relationship between living in a household that receives the Brazilian Income Transfer Program (Bolsa Família, in Portuguese - BF), a Brazilian conditional cash transfer program, and aspects of health and whether these relationships are heterogeneous across the 27 Brazilian states. According to data from the 2013 Brazilian National Health Survey, 18% of households participated in BF. Among households with household per capita income below BRL 500, many aspects of health differed between people living in BF and non-BF houses. For example, BF households were less likely to have medical coverage but more likely to have visited the doctor in the last 12 months as well as being more likely to smoke and less likely to do exercise. They ate nearly one less serving of fruits and vegetables a week but were less likely to substitute junk food for a meal. They reported worse self-rated health but did not differ importantly on reporting illnesses. Moderate amounts of heterogeneity in the difference in health characteristics were found for some variables. For instance, medical coverage had an I2 value of 40.7% and the difference in coverage between BF and non-BF households ranged from -0.09 to -0.03. Some illnesses differed qualitatively across states such as high cholesterol, asthma and arthritis. This paper is the first to outline the health profile of people living in households receiving payments from a cash transfer program. It is also the first to find geographic heterogeneity in the relationship between a cash transfer program and health variables. These results suggest the possibility that the effect of cash transfer programs may differ based on the population on which it is implemented.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31291427	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291427	asthma
Journal of medicinal chemistry	Development of Dual Chitinases Inhibitors as Potential New Treatment for Respiratory System Diseases.	Acidic mammalian chitinase (AMCase) and chitotriosidase-1 (CHIT1) are two enzymatically active proteins produced by mammals and capable of cleaving glycosidic bond in chitin. Based on the clinical findings and animal models studies, involvement of chitinases has been suggested in several respiratory system diseases including asthma, COPD and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Exploration of structure-activity relationships within the series of 1-(3-amino-1H-1,2,4-triazol-5-yl)-piperidin-4-amines, that was earlier identified as a scaffold of potent AMCase inhibitors, led us to discovery of highly active dual (i.e. AMCase and CHIT1) inhibitors with very good pharmacokinetic properties. Among them, compound 30 was shown to reduce the total number of cells in bronchoalveolar lavage ﬂuid (BALf) of mice challenged with house dust mite (HDM) extract after oral administration (50 mg/kg, qd). In addition, affinity towards hERG potassium channel of compound 30 was significantly reduced when compared to the earlier reported chitinases inhibitors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291098	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291098	asthma
Journal of the American Association of Nurse Practitioners	Understanding the genetics of asthma and implications for clinical practice.	Asthma is one of the most common heritable diseases globally, with variable clinical expression and response to treatment that is attributed to underlying genetic differences. Hundreds of loci on multiple chromosomes are associated with asthma. Although routine genetic screening is not recommended, testing for medication responsiveness might soon play a role in clinical management. Pharmacogenetic research remains early stage but has demonstrated potential for both clinical and cost effectiveness. Furthermore, recognition of clinically apparent asthma phenotypes, the result of genetic and environmental interactions, can help to inform treatment decisions. Phenotypes are divided into two broad categories of atopic and nonatopic disease, with further subdivisions that are associated with clinical presentation patterns and responsiveness to treatment. In general, earlier onset and allergic disease will respond well to traditional therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) and leukotrienes because these medications target inflammatory pathways for allergic disease. However, patients with late-onset, symptom predominant (lacking inflammation), and obese asthma might be resistant to standard therapy and may require treatment modification. These patients are at risk for overuse of ICSs with poor response and may benefit more by use of long-acting beta agonists, long-acting muscarinic agonists, weight reduction, and exercise.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290808	asthma
Otology & neurotology : official publication of the American Otological Society, American Neurotology Society [and] European Academy of Otology and Neurotology	Differentiation Between Eosinophilic Otitis Media and Otitis Media Associated With Eosinophilic Granulomatosis With Polyangiitis.	The findings of the present study suggest that the phenotypic characteristics of EOM closely resemble those of otitis media associated with EGPA in early stages before the appearance of vasculitis. Therefore, it is challenging to differentiate the two conditions purely on the basis of otorhinological examinations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290803	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290803	asthma
Revue medicale suisse	[Exercise induced dyspnea in adolescents].	La dyspnée d’effort est une plainte fréquente chez l’adolescent, qu’il soit sédentaire ou sportif de compétition. Cette plainte peut être associée à une baisse des performances sportives et à une fatigue générale. Elle peut être causée par diverses étiologies, parfois concomitantes. Il est important pour les cliniciens d’obtenir une anamnèse spécifique pour ensuite réaliser les examens complémentaires appropriés. Les trois entités diagnostiques les plus fréquentes sont l’asthme/bronchoconstriction induite par l’effort, l’obstruction laryngée induite par l’exercice, et le déconditionnement physique, présentant chacune des caractéristiques distinctives. La prise en charge thérapeutique doit être individualisée et dépend de l’étiologie retrouvée, incluant des mesures environnementales et un traitement médicamenteux approprié.	2019	fre	Journal Article	Switzerland	31290625	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290625	asthma
Acta dermato-venereologica	Burden of Atopic Dermatitis in Swedish Adults: A Population-based Study.	The aim of this study was to assess the burden of atopic dermatitis (AD) in terms of disability adjusted life years (DALY), mental comorbidity, academic attainment, and ability to work. A population-based, cross-sectional questionnaire study was performed among 34,313 randomly selected adults from central Sweden in 2017. The prevalence of AD was 14% and DALY score 527 (uncertainty interval 305-826). Adults with mild AD had an increased relative risk ratio (RRR) of severe depression (adjusted RRR; aRRR 1.78, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.50-2.12) and anxiety (aRRR 1.97, 95% CI 1.69-2.30), which was higher for severe AD (aRRR 6.22 95% CI 4.60-8.42, aRRR 5.62 95% CI 4.10-7.71, respectively). Adjustments (aRRR) were made for sex, age group and highest level of education achieved. Persons with severe AD were less likely to have a university degree (aRRR 0.55, 95% CI 0.34-0.90) and a lower annual income (238,000-324,000 SEK: aRRR 0.51, 95% CI 0.39-0.77; 325,000 SEK or more 0.36; 0.25-0.58) compared with individuals without AD. For individuals with both AD and asthma, the relationship with both diagnosed depression (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 1.52, 95% CI 1.35-1.72; 3.51, 2.87-4.30) and anxiety (aOR 1.60, 95% CI 1.48-1.73; 2.31, 1.96-2.72) was stronger compared with those with AD only. These results suggest that AD implies an increased prevalence of comorbid mental conditions and an adverse impact on academic achievement and work. These adverse associations increase substantially for patients with severe AD and comorbid asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Sweden	31289842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289842	asthma
Scientific reports	Integrin α7 expression is increased in asthmatic patients and its inhibition reduces Kras protein abundance in airway smooth muscle cells.	Airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells exhibit plastic phenotypic behavior marked by reversible modulation and maturation between contractile and proliferative phenotypic states. Integrins are a class of transmembrane proteins that have been implicated as novel therapeutic targets for asthma treatment. We previously showed that integrin α7 is a novel marker of the contractile ASM phenotype suggesting that targeting this protein may offer new avenues to counter the increase in ASM cell mass that underlies airways hyperresponsiveness (AHR) in asthma. We now determine whether inhibition of integrin α7 expression would revert ASM cells back to a proliferative phenotype to cause an increase in ASM cell mass. This would be detrimental to asthmatic patients who already exhibit increased ASM mass in their airways. Using immunohistochemical analysis of the Melbourne Epidemiological Study of Childhood Asthma (MESCA) cohort, we show for the first time that integrin α7 expression in patients with severe asthma is increased, supporting a clinically relevant role for this protein in asthma pathophysiology. Moreover, inhibition of the laminin-integrin α7 signaling axis results in a reduction in smooth muscle-alpha actin abundance and does not revert ASM cells back to a proliferative phenotype. We determined that integrin α7-induced Kras isoform of p21 Ras acts as a point of convergence between contractile and proliferative ASM phenotypic states. Our study provides further support for targeting integrin α7 for the development of novel anti-asthma therapies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289310	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289310	asthma
Pediatrics	Family Chaos and Asthma Control.	Findings highlight family chaos as a mechanism underlying the relationship between parent depression and child asthma control. Addressing parent and child depression, family routines, and predictability may optimize asthma outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31289192	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289192	asthma
Journal of epidemiology and community health	Violent crime and socioeconomic deprivation in shaping asthma-related pollution susceptibility: a case-crossover design.	The results suggest stronger spatiotemporal ozone-asthma associations in communities of higher violent crime or deprivation. Notably, violence was the more consistent and significant modifier, potentially mediating a substantial portion of socioeconomic position-related susceptibility.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31289119	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289119	asthma
BMC public health	Effects of the home-based educational intervention on health outcomes among primarily Hispanic children with asthma: a quasi-experimental study.	This study concluded that the home-based education by CHWs effectively improve health outcomes among children in communities lacking access to medical resources. The findings suggest the importance of the home-based education program in promoting emotional and medical care for children and their families in low-income communities like those in the Texas-Mexico border region.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288792	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288792	asthma
BMC pulmonary medicine	Asthma severity in four countries of Latin America.	SA patients were older, had greater proportions in some comorbidities and experienced increased healthcare utilization. Also, our results showed that even in patients using the last steps of treatment (GINA step 4 or 5), there was still a higher proportion of uncontrolled disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288777	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288777	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Prodromal clinical, demographic, and socio-ecological correlates of asthma in adults: A 10-year statewide big data multi-domain analysis.	In this large statewide study using a machine learning approach, we found that a multi-domain approach with demographics, clinical, and socio-ecological variables best predicted an asthma diagnosis. Future work should focus on integrating machine learning-generated predictive models into clinical practice to improve early detection of those common respiratory diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288571	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288571	asthma
The Journal of asthma : official journal of the Association for the Care of Asthma	Title: Descriptions and Outcomes of Cardiac Evaluations in Pediatric Patients Hospitalized for Asthma.	Patients hospitalized for asthma can exhibit concurrent cardiac symptoms and undergo cardiac work up. We identify patients admitted for asthma that underwent cardiac workup and describe outcomes to evaluate the utility of cardiac testing in this population. Patients aged 4 to 17 years admitted for status asthmaticus from 2012 - 2016 were screened for EKG, ECHO, or cardiac enzyme obtainment. Out of 1296 patients, 77 (6%) received cardiac testing. The most common reasons for testing were chest pain (25, 32%), blood pressure abnormalities (11, 14%), tachycardia (8, 10%), arrhythmia (6, 8%), and syncope (6, 8%). Sinus tachycardia (43, 66%) was the most common EKG finding. 4 out of 27 patients who underwent ECHOs had abnormalities: 2 with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), 1 with vascular ring, and 1 with evidence of pulmonary hypertension. All patients who underwent an EKG to evaluate tachycardia had normalization of heart rate at discharge. Cardiac ischemia was not evident in any patients who underwent workup with cardiac enzymes to evaluate chest pain. All cases of arrhythmias resolved on discharge. Diastolic hypotension (DhTN) was found in 10 out of the 11 blood pressure abnormalities. There was mixed efficacy of fluid bolus in correcting DhTN. All DhTN resolved on discharge. One patient with syncope had a new diagnosis of HCM. While cardiac complications are seen in patients admitted for status asthmaticus, the etiology rarely stems from underlying cardiac disease. EKGs, ECHOs, and cardiac enzymes should have a minimal role in the management of the hospitalized asthmatic patient.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288567	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288567	asthma
Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)	Antispasmodic Activity of Prenylated Phenolic Compounds from the Root Bark of 	Black mulberry is a widely acknowledged ancient traditional medicine. Its extract and constituents have been reported to exert various bioactivities including antimicrobial, hypotensive, analgesic etc. effects. While black mulberry preparations are also used as antispasmodic agents in folk medicine, no related studies are available on its isolated constituents. Through an extensive chromatographic purification, seven phenolic compounds were isolated from the methanol extract of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31288489	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288489	asthma
Respiration; international review of thoracic diseases	Measurement of Fractional Exhaled Nitric Oxide: Comparison of Three Different Analysers.	For the range between 0 and 70 ppb, FeNO concentrations measured with all 3 devices were statistically equivalent within predefined acceptance criteria and did not differ in a clinically relevant way.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31288246	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288246	asthma
Food chemistry	Anti-inflammatory effects of flavonoids.	Inflammation plays a key role in diseases such as diabetes, asthma, cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Diet can influence different stages of inflammation and can have an important impact on several inflammatory diseases. Increasing scientific evidence has shown that polyphenolic compounds, such as flavonoids, which are found in fruits, vegetables, legumes, or cocoa, can have anti-inflammatory properties. Recent studies have demonstrated that flavonoids can inhibit regulatory enzymes or transcription factors important for controlling mediators involved in inflammation. Flavonoids are also known as potent antioxidants with the potential to attenuate tissue damage or fibrosis. Consequently, numerous studies in vitro and in animal models have found that flavonoids have the potential to inhibit the onset and development of inflammatory diseases. In the present review, we focused in flavonoids, the most abundant polyphenols in the diet, to give an overview of the most recent scientific knowledge about their impact on different inflammatory diseases.	2019	eng	Review	England	31288163	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288163	asthma
The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Enhanced local production of interleukin-26 in uncontrolled compared with controlled adult asthma.	The level of local production of IL-26 in the airways bears potential as a biomarker for characterizing adult patients with asthma in terms of poor disease control.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31288043	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288043	asthma
European annals of allergy and clinical immunology	Quality of life improvement with allergen immunotherapy treatment in patients with rhinoconjunctivitis in real life conditions. Results of an observational prospective study (ÍCARA).	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31287263	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287263	asthma
European annals of allergy and clinical immunology	Metabolic interactions in asthma.	Metabolomics can be used to explore altered metabolic pathways in asthma, giving insights into its pathophysiology. We aimed to review how metabolomics has been used to understand asthma by describing metabolic pathways under research and discussing clinical implications. The search was performed in PubMed, and studies published since 2000 using a metabolomics approach, were included. A total of 32 studies were analysed. Pathways related with cellular energy homeostasis, lipid metabolism and oxidative stress, immune and inflammatory processes and others were altered. Initial studies focused on biomarker discovery. But, metabolomics can be used to evaluate drug effects on specific pathways, to highlight pathways that can further develop in new targeted treatments and to identify differences according to asthma severity and phenotypes.	2019	eng	Review	Italy	31287260	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287260	asthma
The American journal of clinical nutrition	The role of linoleic acid in asthma and inflammatory markers: a Mendelian randomization study.	LA might protect against asthma possibly via white blood cell traits, with relevance to the identification of effective new interventions for asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287141	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287141	asthma
Environmental health and toxicology	Assessment of relationship between the use of household products and atopic dermatitis in Seoul: focused on products with associated risks.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between the use of certain household products (HPs) at home and atopic dermatitis (AD) in adults. The study was conducted on 1,500 households in Seoul, South Korea. We obtained information on general characteristics, the use of HPs, and AD through an online panel survey in July 2018. HPs were selected as 23 kinds of products with associated risks that are management targets of the Ministry of Environment. The international study of asthma and allergies in childhood was used for the AD questionnaires. Logistic regression analysis was used to identify AD affected by the use of HPs. Average number of used HPs was 13.44 out of 23, and average usage frequency of HPs was 3.52 times a month at home in Seoul for the last 1 year. Compared with subjects with a low number of HPs used (reference), subjects with a high number of used HPs (4th quartile) were more likely to have lifetime diagnosis of AD (odds ratio (OR) = 1.77, 95% confidence interval (CI); 1.23-2.54), symptoms of AD in the last 12 months (OR = 2.66, 95% CI; 1.92-3.70), and treatment of AD in the last 12 months (OR = 2.37, 95% CI; 1.48-3.80). Compared with subjects with a low HPs usage frequency (reference), subjects with a high HPs usage frequency (4th quartile) were more likely to have lifetime diagnosis of AD (OR = 1.88, 95% CI; 1.31-2.70), symptoms of AD in the last 12 months (OR = 2.14, 95% CI; 1.54-2.96), and treatment of AD in the last 12 months (OR = 2.23, 95% CI; 1.39-3.60). Therefore, the use of HPs was significantly associated with AD. The findings of this study might be useful as basic data for managing allergic diseases and establishing preventive measures.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31286750	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286750	asthma
Environmental health and toxicology	Eye irritation tests of polyhexamethylene guanidine phosphate (PHMG) and chloromethylisothiazolinone/methylisothiazolinone (CMIT/MIT) using a tissue model of reconstructed human cornea-like epithelium.	Disinfectants including polyhexamethylene guanidine phosphate (PHMG) and mixtures of chloromethylisothiazolinone/ methylisothiazolinone (CMIT/MIT) have been widely used in Korea to prevent microbial growth in the humidifier water, which triggered an outbreak of serious respiratory diseases. In addition to the respiratory syndrome, disease-related symptoms including liver toxicity, asthma, and skin allergies were also found after extensive survey of people exposed to the humidifier disinfectants (HDs). In this study, eye irritation tests were performed based on the Organization for economic co-operation and development (OECD) test guidelines 492 using EpiOcularTM which is a tissue model of reconstructed human cornea-like epithelium. As results, the raw materials of PHMG (26% as active ingredient) and CMIT/MIT (1.5% as active ingredient) were classified under UN globally harmonized system of classification and labeling of chemical (GHS) category 1 or category 2. However, aqueous dilutions of raw materials such as market products of HDs that contain 0.13% of PHMG and 0.03% of CMIT/MIT or further dilutions of the market products for humidifier that contain 0.0013% of PHMG and 0.0003% of CMIT/MIT were classified under any category, which suggested absence of eye irritation at the test concentration.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31286748	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286748	asthma
Australian veterinary journal	The relationship between bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cytology and airway hyper-reactivity in a population of Australian horses presented for poor performance.	In the Australian context, recently revised increased bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cytology relative cell percentage cut offs appear appropriate for sole mast cell responses. The historical lower cut offs appear to be appropriate for mixed inflammatory cell responses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31286483	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286483	asthma
Canadian journal of public health = Revue canadienne de sante publique	Assessment of the Air Quality Health Index (AQHI) and four alternate AQHI-Plus amendments for wildfire seasons in British Columbia.	Individuals with common respiratory conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are particularly susceptible to wildfire smoke. As such, the 1-h PM	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31286460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286460	asthma
Allergy, asthma, and clinical immunology : official journal of the Canadian Society of Allergy and Clinical Immunology	Maternal diet before and during pregnancy and risk of asthma and allergic rhinitis in children.	Based on our findings, preconceptional and prenatal maternal intake of certain type of food groups may be preventive against asthma, wheezing and allergic rhinitis, whereas higher maternal intake of meat before pregnancy may increase the risk of wheezing, allergic rhinitis and atopic dermatitis in young children.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285746	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285746	asthma
Thorax	Normalisation of MRI ventilation heterogeneity in severe asthma by dupilumab.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285363	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285363	asthma
Thorax	Nanotechnology based therapeutics for lung disease.	Nanomedicine is a multidisciplinary research field with an integration of traditional sciences such as chemistry, physics, biology and materials science. The application of nanomedicine for lung diseases as a relatively new area of interdisciplinary science has grown rapidly over the last 10 years. Promising research outcomes suggest that nanomedicine will revolutionise the practice of medicine, through the development of new approaches in therapeutic agent delivery, vaccine development and nanotechnology-based medical detections. Nano-based approaches in the diagnosis and treatment of lung diseases will, in the not too distant future, change the way we practise medicine. This review will focus on the current trends and developments in the clinical translation of nanomedicine for lung diseases, such as in the areas of lung cancer, cystic fibrosis, asthma, bacterial infections and COPD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285360	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285360	asthma
The European respiratory journal	Air pollution, lung function and COPD: results from the population-based UK Biobank study.	Ambient air pollution increases the risk of respiratory mortality but evidence for impacts on lung function and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is less well established. The aim was to evaluate whether ambient air pollution is associated with lung function and COPD, and explore potential vulnerability factors.We used UK Biobank data on 3 03 887 individuals aged 40-69 years, with complete covariate data and valid lung function measures. Cross-sectional analyses examined associations of Land Use Regression-based estimates of particulate matter (PM	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285306	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285306	asthma
The European respiratory journal	Sensitisation to staphylococcal enterotoxins and asthma severity: a longitudinal study in the EGEA cohort.	For the first time, this study shows that being sensitised to SEs is associated with an increased subsequent risk of severe asthma and asthma exacerbations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285304	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285304	asthma
European respiratory review : an official journal of the European Respiratory Society	Severe T2-high asthma in the biologics era: European experts' opinion.	The European Respiratory Biologics Forum gathered participants from 21 countries in Madrid, Spain, to discuss the management and treatment of severe asthma in the era of biologics. The current insights on the pathophysiology of severe asthma were discussed, as well as the role of respiratory biologics in clinical practice and strategies for eliminating chronic use of oral corticosteroids. The participants also highlighted the key challenges in identifying patients with severe asthma based on phenotypes, biomarkers and treatable traits, and the existing problems in patient referral to specialist care. The monitoring of treatment was debated and the need for a change towards precision medicine and personalised care was emphasised throughout the meeting. This review provides a summary of the discussions and highlights important concerns identified by the participants regarding the current management of severe asthma.	2019	eng	Review	England	31285291	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285291	asthma
European respiratory review : an official journal of the European Respiratory Society	Bariatric surgery: a potential cure for asthma?	Asthma incidence and severity are increased in obese populations. Systematic reviews have shown benefit from weight-loss interventions on asthma outcomes, but the role of bariatric surgery is still unclear. In this review, cohorts of obese asthmatic patients undergoing bariatric surgery were examined regarding different asthma outcomes. The available data on patients who were followed up showed improvements in asthma control, exacerbation risk, asthma-related hospitalisation, medication use and airway hyperresponsiveness, with some patients not requiring further treatment for asthma. Follow-up duration was variable, being mostly of 1 year, with some studies reporting long-term outcomes after 5 years. The studies reviewed had many limitations, including small numbers of patients, lack of control arm in some studies and lack of standardisation of asthma diagnosis, classification and outcome measures, in addition to possible reporting bias. Data on small numbers of patients also show the possibility of benefit exclusively in nonallergic asthma. Larger, more stringent clinical trials are needed before recommending bariatric surgery for treatment of asthma.	2019	eng	Review	England	31285286	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285286	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	The Complicated Dance of Infections and Asthma.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31284933	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284933	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Microbes, Infections, and Their Relationship to Asthma.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31284932	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284932	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Biologics for Asthma and Risk of Infection: Cause for Concern?	Monoclonal antibodies block specific inflammatory pathways involved in the pathogenesis of asthma. These pathways are important in host defense against pathogens, and in particular, against parasites. Despite theoretical concerns about infection risk, biologics seem to have a favorable safety profile. Data from large clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance for these drugs have not shown increases in severe infections, including those from parasitic organisms. This may be due to redundancy of effector cells within the immune system. Certain drugs have special considerations and precautions, and therefore, the prescribing physician should be familiar with product recommendations and warnings.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284931	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284931	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Helminths and Asthma: Risk and Protection.	Helminth infections may inhibit the development of allergic diseases, including asthma. On the other hand, some helminth species may induce or worsen symptoms of asthma. This article discusses the impact of helminth infections on asthma as well as the potencial of helminth-derived molecules with regulatory characteristics in the prevention or treatment of this disease. The ability to induce regulation has been observed in animal models of asthma or cells of asthmatic individuals in vitro. Potential future clinical applications of helminth antigens or infection for prevention of asthma merit further translational research.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284930	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284930	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Sinus Infections, Inflammation, and Asthma.	There is an important link between the upper and lower respiratory tracts whereby inflammation in one environment can influence the other. In acute rhinosinusitis, pathogen exposures are the primary driver for inflammation in the nose, which can exacerbate asthma. In chronic rhinosinusitis, a disease clinically associated with asthma, the inflammation observed is likely from a combination of an impaired epithelial barrier, dysregulated immune response, and potentially infection (or colonization) by specific pathogens. This review explores the associations between rhinosinusitis and asthma, with particular emphasis placed on the role of infections and inflammation.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284929	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284929	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Beyond Respiratory Syncytial Virus and Rhinovirus in the Pathogenesis and Exacerbation of Asthma: The Role of Metapneumovirus, Bocavirus and Influenza Virus.	Respiratory viruses other than rhinovirus or respiratory syncytial virus, including human metapneumovirus, influenza virus, and human bocavirus, are important pathogens in acute wheezing illness and asthma exacerbations in young children. Whether infection with these viruses in early life is associated with recurrent wheezing and/or asthma is not fully investigated, although there are data to suggest children with human metapneumovirus lower respiratory tract infection may have a higher likelihood of subsequent and recurrent wheezing several years after initial infection.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284928	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284928	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Bacteria in Asthma Pathogenesis.	The airways are under continuous assault from aerosolized bacteria and oral flora. The bacteria present in the airways and gastrointestinal tract of neonates promote immune maturation and protect against asthma pathogenesis. Later bacterial infections and perturbations to the microbiome can contribute to asthma pathogenesis, persistence, and severity.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284927	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284927	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Infant Immune Response to Respiratory Viral Infections.	Of all respiratory viruses that affect infants, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and rhinovirus (RV) represent the leading pathogens causing acute disease (bronchiolitis) and are associated with the development of recurrent wheezing and asthma. The immune system in infants is still developing, and several factors contribute to their increased susceptibility to viral infections. These factors include differences in pathogen detection, weaker interferon responses, lack of immunologic memory toward the invading pathogen, and T-cell responses that are balanced to promote tolerance and restrain inflammation. These aspects are reviewed here with a focus on RSV and RV infections.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284926	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284926	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Rhinovirus Attributes that Contribute to Asthma Development.	Early-life wheezing-associated infections with human rhinovirus (HRV) are strongly associated with the inception of asthma. The immune system of immature mice and humans is skewed toward a type 2 cytokine response. Thus, HRV-infected 6-day-old mice but not adult mice develop augmented type 2 cytokine expression, eosinophilic inflammation, mucous metaplasia, and airway hyperresponsiveness. This asthma phenotype depends on interleukin (IL)-13-producing type 2 innate lymphoid cells, the expansion of which in turn depends on release of the innate cytokines IL-25, IL-33, and thymic stromal lymphopoietin from the airway epithelium. In humans, certain genetic variants may predispose to HRV-induced childhood asthma.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284925	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284925	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Rhinovirus and Asthma Exacerbations.	Rhinovirus (RV) is ubiquitous and typically causes only minor upper respiratory symptoms. However, especially in children and adolescent asthmatics, RV is responsible for most exacerbations. This ability of RV to drive exacerbations typically requires the concomitant presence of exposure to a bystander allergen. Susceptibility to RV-mediated exacerbations is also related to the genetic background of the host, which contributes to greater infectivity, more severe infections, altered immune responses, and to greater inflammation and loss of asthma control. Given these responses, there are several treatments available or being developed that should improve the control of exacerbations related to RV infection.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284924	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284924	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Importance of Virus Characteristics in Respiratory Syncytial Virus-Induced Disease.	Severe lower respiratory tract infection in infants and young children is most frequently caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). RSV infects the smallest airways, making breathing difficult and in some infants requiring medical support. Severity is affected by viral dose, infant age, virus genotype, and effectiveness of the innate/adaptive immune responses. Severe disease correlates with later wheezing and asthma in some children. The adaptive immune response is protective but wanes after each infection, likely due to the ability of the RSV NS1/NS2 proteins to inhibit the innate immune response. Several vaccine approaches and candidates are currently in clinical trials.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284923	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284923	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Early Life Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection and Asthmatic Responses.	The infant's developing immune response is central to establishing a balanced system that reacts appropriately to infectious stimuli, but does not induce altered disease states with potential long-term sequelae. Respiratory syncytial virus may alter the immune system, affecting future responses. Early infection may have direct effects on the lung itself. Other early life processes contribute to the development of immune responses including assembly of the microbiome, which seems to have a particularly important role for establishing the immune environment. This review covers studies that have set up important paradigms and discusses recent data that direct research toward informative hypotheses.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284922	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284922	asthma
Immunology and allergy clinics of North America	Epidemiology of Infections and Development of Asthma.	Asthma and allergic diseases have become more prevalent, although the reasons for this increase in disease burden are not known. Understanding why these diseases have become more common requires knowledge of the disease pathogenesis. Multiple studies have identified respiratory viral infections and atypical bacteria as potential etiologic agents underlying the development of asthma (and possibly allergies). This review discusses the epidemiology and potential mechanistic studies that provide links between these infectious agents and the development (and exacerbation) of asthma. These studies provide insight into the increase in disease prevalence and have identified potential targets for future therapeutic intervention.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31284921	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284921	asthma
Journal of child health care : for professionals working with children in the hospital and community	Erratum.	Phonpruk K, Flowers, K, Naughton G, et al. (2019). Analysis of written resources for parents of children discharged from a paediatric emergency department. 	2019	eng	Published Erratum	England	31284733	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284733	asthma
Cells	Advanced Molecular Knowledge of Therapeutic Drugs and Natural Products Focusing on Inflammatory Cytokines in Asthma.	Asthma is a common respiratory disease worldwide. Cytokines play a crucial role in the immune system and the inflammatory response to asthma. Abnormal cytokine expression may lead to the development of asthma, which may contribute to pathologies of this disease. As cytokines exhibit pleiotropy and redundancy characteristics, we summarized them according to their biologic activity in asthma development. We classified cytokines in three stages as follows: Group 1 cytokines for the epithelial environment stage, Group 2 cytokines for the Th2 polarization stage, and Group 3 cytokines for the tissue damage stage. The recent cytokine-targeting therapy for clinical use (anti-cytokine antibody/anti-cytokine receptor antibody) and traditional medicinal herbs (pure compounds, single herb, or natural formula) have been discussed in this review. Studies of the Group 2 anti-cytokine/anti-cytokine receptor therapies are more prominent than the studies of the other two groups. Anti-cytokine antibodies/anti-cytokine receptor antibodies for clinical use can be applied for patients who did not respond to standard treatments. For traditional medicinal herbs, anti-asthmatic bioactive compounds derived from medicinal herbs can be divided into five classes: alkaloids, flavonoids, glycosides, polyphenols, and terpenoids. However, the exact pathways targeted by these natural compounds need to be clarified. Using relevant knowledge to develop more comprehensive strategies may provide appropriate treatment for patients with asthma in the future.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31284537	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284537	asthma
Pediatric allergy and immunology : official publication of the European Society of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology	Does physical activity strengthen lungs and protect against asthma in childhood? A systematic review.	The evidence was highly inconsistent for both the relationship between physical activity and asthma and lung function outcomes. Hence, we conclude that there is insufficient evidence to suggest that physical activity has a long-term effect on the risk of asthma development in youth. Furthermore, there is insufficient evidence to determine the longitudinal effects of physical activity on lung function in children. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31283849	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283849	asthma
Ophthalmic plastic and reconstructive surgery	Woakes Syndrome: A Rare Cause of Proptosis due to Sinonasal Polyposis.	The authors report 2 consecutive adult male patients, aged 61 and 38 years, who presented with painless unilateral proptosis. Their past medical histories were negative for asthma, allergies, and Graves disease. On examination, the nose bridge of the eldest patient was clearly enlarged. Computed tomography scans of the orbits and paranasal sinuses showed in both patients the same radiologic pattern of hyperdense ethmoidal opacifications and expansion of the inferomedial orbital floor. Histopathological analysis of the ethmoidal cells mucosa obtained during inferomedial decompression revealed benign sinonasal polyposis. These cases demonstrate that asymptomatic sinonasal polyposis can be a rare cause of proptosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31283698	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283698	asthma
Journal of investigational allergology & clinical immunology	Occupational asthma induced by quinoa exposure.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Spain	31283525	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283525	asthma
Journal of investigational allergology & clinical immunology	Molecular diagnosis in house dust mite allergic patients suggests clinical relevance of Der p 23 in asthmatic children.	Most of our population with mite allergy is sensitized to Der p 1, Der p 2 and Der p 23 major allergens; however, 5% were sensitized only to Der p 23 of the allergens evaluated. Sensitization to Der p 23 should be considered in the diagnosis and treatment of mite allergy, especially in patients with moderate and severe asthma because it may worsen the clinical phenotype.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Spain	31283524	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283524	asthma
Journal of investigational allergology & clinical immunology	Main contributory factors on asthma control and health-related quality of life (QoL) in elderly asthmatics.	Despite receiving anti-asthmatic therapy, almost one-third of elderly patients had uncontrolled asthma. Factors related to treatment adherence, exacerbations and health-related quality of life should be considered. Non-respiratory comorbid conditions in older patients does not seem to be associated with worse asthma control of symptoms but their influence in health-related quality of life could indirectly affect asthma control.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Spain	31283523	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283523	asthma
Journal of investigational allergology & clinical immunology	Immunochemical and physical quantitation of grass and olive pollen allergens and correlation with asthma admitions in Cáceres, Spain.	This study reveals a significant correlation between grass and olive pollination and the increase of the number of visits to the emergency room due to asthma crisis. The aerobiological pattern of allergen levels in the air is comparable to the pollen counts during the grass and olive pollination periods.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Spain	31283522	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283522	asthma
Journal of investigational allergology & clinical immunology	The safety and efficacy of aspirin desensitization combined with long-term aspirin therapy in Aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease.	Clearly, aspirin desensitization and treatment are beneficial for AERD patients, with a reduction of nasal symptoms, improvements in asthma control and decrease of daily corticosteroid use, without fatal adverse events. However, long-term side effects of aspirin desensitization and optimal dosage of aspirin merit further investigation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Spain	31283521	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283521	asthma
Issues in mental health nursing	Prevalence of Chronic Health Conditions in Australian Adults with Depression and/or Anxiety.	The association between psychotic illness and poor physical health is now clearly articulated in the literature. By contrast the impact of depression and/or anxiety on physical health is considerably less understood, despite depression being the leading cause of disability worldwide and is associated with significantly higher prevalence of physical comorbidities than found in the general population. An Australia national cross-sectional population-based survey was conducted to ascertain the prevalence of chronic physical health conditions in persons with, and without depression and/or anxiety, allowing for demographic characteristics and lifestyle factors. The telephone-based survey was conducted using trained interviewers. Survey questions included those eliciting information about demographics, health status, and health behaviours. Independent t-tests and chi square tests showed demographic, health behaviours, and physical illness differed between those with and without depression and/or anxiety. Heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, cancer, arthritis, chronic neck and/or back pain, and asthma were significantly higher in participants diagnosed with depression and/or anxiety. Binary logistic regression showed the strongest predictor of chronic illness was having a diagnosis of depression and/or anxiety. Depression and anxiety present major health problems impacting a considerable proportion of the population. A greater understanding of the associated physical health issues should provide impetus to broaden the physical health and mental illness research agenda to include these diagnoses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31283353	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283353	asthma
Advances in respiratory medicine	Air outside the airways: an unusual complication of asthma.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	31282563	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282563	asthma
Advances in respiratory medicine	Health status of patients who suffer from acute and chronic respiratory diseases in Greece in the era of economic crisis.	Economic crisis in Greece, affected COPD burden in terms of financial ability, and quality of life.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	31282558	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282558	asthma
Advances in respiratory medicine	Predictors of airway hyperreactivity in house dust mite allergic patients.	Even in a well-characterized asthma phenotype several processes participate in development of AHR. Major, independent predictors of AHR: lung function parameters, FeNO and DpIgE indicate possible targets for therapeutic intervention in a population of HDM-allergic patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	31282556	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282556	asthma
Advances in respiratory medicine	The effectiveness of relaxation training in the quality of life and anxiety of patients with asthma.	As an accessory helpful treatment, relaxation training Papworth method sounds to be perfectly able to control stressful conditions in patients with asthma to prevent disease attacks and improve the quality of life. So, psychological teams can be advised to referral centers for asthma in the relevant clinics to help people get training in this regard.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	31282555	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282555	asthma
Monaldi archives for chest disease = Archivio Monaldi per le malattie del torace	Splenic artery aneurysm in Sjögren's syndrome.	A 40-year-old female presented with cough, exertional dyspnea, abdominal pain with distention, fatigue, dry eyes and dry mouth. Past history revealed asthma. Physical examination was normal except for tachypnea. We found leukocytosis, azygos fissure on chest X-ray along with normal pulmonary function tests and arterial blood gases.  Thorax computed tomography (CT) revealed bronchiectasis and ground glass opacities in both lungs. Abdominal CT demonstrated thrombosed proximal splenic artery aneurysm. Further diagnostic procedures were done and according to the positive Schirmer test and compatible histopathologic findings of the salivary gland, diagnosis of primary Sjögren's syndrome was established. Splenic artery aneurysm is rare occurring in less than 1% of the population that usually appears as an incidental finding. This is the first case in literature that introduces Sjögren's syndrome as a risk factor for splenic artery aneurysm. The silent presentation of the splenic artery aneurysm should previse the clinicians that such an occurrence may cause a significant diagnostic dilemma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31282141	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282141	asthma
BioMed research international	Neutrophilic Dermatoses and Their Implication in Pathophysiology of Asthma and Other Respiratory Comorbidities: A Narrative Review.	Neutrophilic dermatoses (ND) are a polymorphous group of noncontagious dermatological disorders that share the common histological feature of a sterile cutaneous infiltration of mature neutrophils. Clinical manifestations can vary from nodules, pustules, and bulla to erosions and ulcerations. The etiopathogenesis of neutrophilic dermatoses has continuously evolved. Accumulating genetic, clinical, and histological evidence point to NDs being classified in the spectrum of autoinflammatory conditions. However, unlike the monogenic autoinflammatory syndromes where a clear multiple change in the inflammasome structure/function is demonstrated, NDs display several proinflammatory abnormalities, mainly driven by IL-1, IL-17, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a). Additionally, because of the frequent association with extracutaneous manifestations where neutrophils seem to play a crucial role, it was plausible also to consider NDs as a cutaneous presentation of a systemic neutrophilic condition. Neutrophilic dermatoses are more frequently recognized in association with respiratory disorders than by chance alone. The combination of the two, particularly in the context of their overlapping immune responses mediated primarily by neutrophils, raises the likelihood of a common neutrophilic systemic disease or an aberrant innate immunity disorder. Associated respiratory conditions can serve as a trigger or may develop or be exacerbated secondary to the uncontrolled skin disorder. Physicians should be aware of the possible pulmonary comorbidities and apply this knowledge in the three steps of patients' management, work-up, diagnosis, and treatment. In this review, we attempt to unravel the pathophysiological mechanisms of this association and also present some evidence for the role of targeted therapy in the treatment of both conditions.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31281845	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281845	asthma
Case reports in pathology	A Case of Sudden Death: Subarachnoid Hemorrhage, Pheochromocytoma, Berry Aneurysm.	Subarachnoid hemorrhage is a medical emergency. Berry aneurysm rupture is the second most common cause following trauma. Diagnosis is often challenging. Neurogenic heart syndrome often complicates subarachnoid hemorrhage. A concomitant pheochromocytoma can be deadly causing sudden cardiac arrhythmia. Here, we describe a case of subarachnoid hemorrhage with concomitant incidental pheochromocytoma in a relatively young female who died suddenly, diagnosed during autopsy. A 57-year-old Hispanic woman with past medical history of asthma, prediabetes, and uncontrolled hypertension collapsed unexpectedly. She initially had ventricular tachycardia, followed by pulseless electrical activity and finally asystole without response to resuscitation. In the emergency department she was on epinephrine, calcium, naloxone, and tPA with suspected thrombotic stroke. Despite measures, she was pronounced dead. Autopsy revealed subarachnoid hemorrhage due to a ruptured berry aneurysm. Additionally, pheochromocytoma was detected in the right adrenal gland. Subarachnoid hemorrhage has a grave prognosis by itself. This case describes the uncommon detection of pheochromocytoma in the setting of subarachnoid hemorrhage.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31281701	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281701	asthma
Canadian respiratory journal	Effects of Meteorological Factors on Hospitalizations in Adult Patients with Asthma: A Systematic Review.	Our review suggests that HAs and EDVs due to asthma are associated with many meteorological factors. Among the articles included in this review, changing temperature is the most commonly studied variable. We did not find studies that measured barometric pressure, weather phenomena, or the effect of tornados. To develop effective strategies to protect subjects at risk, further studies are required.	2019	eng	Review	Egypt	31281551	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281551	asthma
Bioorganic & medicinal chemistry letters	Synthesis and evaluation of tetrahydropyrazolopyridine inhibitors of anion exchange protein SLC26A4 (pendrin).	Pendrin is a transmembrane chloride/anion antiporter that is strongly upregulated in the airways in rhinoviral infection, asthma, cystic fibrosis and chronic rhinosinusitis. Based on its role in the regulation of airway surface liquid depth, pendrin inhibitors have potential indications for treatment of inflammatory airways diseases. Here, a completely regioselective route to tetrahydro-pyrazolopyridine pendrin inhibitors based on 1,3-diketone and substituted hydrazine condensation was been developed. Structure-activity relationships at the tetrahydropyridyl nitrogen were investigated using a focused library, establishing the privileged nature of N-phenyl ureas and improving inhibitor potency by greater than 2-fold.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31281021	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281021	asthma
The Journal of international medical research	Impact of thyroid hormones on asthma in older adults.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31280621	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31280621	asthma
The journal of allergy and clinical immunology. In practice	Improving Youth Confidence in Using Asthma Medication Devices Correctly: An Important Step Toward Improving Health Outcomes.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31279469	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279469	asthma
The journal of allergy and clinical immunology. In practice	Pollution, Obesity, Vitamin D, or Why Is Asthma So Complicated-and Interesting.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31279465	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279465	asthma
The journal of allergy and clinical immunology. In practice	Airway Inflammatory Patterns in Severe Childhood Asthma-How Might This Change General Practice?	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31279464	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279464	asthma
The journal of allergy and clinical immunology. In practice	Cough and Eosinophilia.	Eosinophilic airway inflammation is observed in 30% to 50% of chronic cough sufferers. It is a common feature of asthma and upper airway cough syndrome, and it is required in the diagnosis of nonasthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis. Our understanding of the mechanisms underlying allergic and nonallergic eosinophilic inflammation have evolved tremendously in the last 2 decades, but the cause of this inflammation in any individual is often uncertain. Inhaled corticosteroids are the mainstay therapy for cough due to asthma or nonasthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis, and response is related to the presence of biomarkers of eosinophilic airway inflammation. In upper airway cough syndrome, nasal topical corticosteroids are beneficial in allergic rhinitis and chronic rhinosinusitis with polyposis. This review will describe the diagnosis, current and possible future treatments, and prognosis of chronic cough in adults with eosinophilic inflammation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279462	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279462	asthma
BMC pediatrics	The discovery BPD (D-BPD) program: study protocol of a prospective translational multicenter collaborative study to investigate determinants of chronic lung disease in very low birth weight infants.	Does not apply for this study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31279333	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279333	asthma
The Journal of surgical research	Predictors of Bowel Resection During Nonelective Ladd Procedure for Pediatric Malrotation.	III.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279268	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279268	asthma
The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Nasal Polyps and Future Risk of Head and Neck Cancer: A Nationwide Population-based Cohort Study.	Although the absolute cancer incidence is very low, the relative risk of NCPS or nasopharyngeal cancers was significantly higher in older patients with nasal polyps. Given the regional and pathological heterogeneity of nasal polyps, further studies are needed to explore the underlying mechanisms and validate the relationships.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279013	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279013	asthma
The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Associations between fungal and bacterial microbiota of airways and asthma endotypes.	We demonstrate clear differences in the bacterial and fungal microbiota in asthma-associated phenotypes. Our study provides additional support for considering microbial signatures in delineating asthma phenotypes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279011	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279011	asthma
The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Why do asthmatics cough? New Insights into Cough in Allergic Asthma.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31279010	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279010	asthma
Pakistan journal of pharmaceutical sciences	Report: Pharmacognostic and physicochemical screening of Euphorbia nivulia Buch.-Ham.	Euphorbia nivulia Buch.-Ham. (Euphorbiaceae) is commonly known as Indian Spurge Tree in English, and "Saj Thor" or "Jhanami booti" in local language. The plant is used traditionally in the treatment of various diseases like inflammation, fever, worm infection, asthma, cough, wounds and diabetes. In current study fresh as well as dried aerial parts of the plant and cut sections were examined, both macroscopically and microscopically. The study also deals with fluorescence analysis and phytochemical characteristics and other WHO recommended methods for standardization. WHO guidelines on quality control for medicinal plants materials were used for pharmacognostical evaluation of E. nivulia, phytochemical screening helps in determining the predominant classes of active constituents responsible for the activity. The present work will be helpful in identification of the fresh and dried samples of aerial parts pharmacognostically and anatomically. These studies will serve as a reference for correct identification and may be helpful in checking any type of adulteration. These observations will also help in differentiating this species from closely related species of the same genus and family.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Pakistan	31278728	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278728	asthma
Thorax	Vitamin D for secondary prevention of acute wheeze attacks in preschool and school-age children.	An evidence-based recommendation for the use of vitamin D as a preventive therapy for wheeze attacks cannot be made until results of further trials are available. The assessment of circulating 25(OH)D concentration and the optimisation of vitamin D status to prevent acute respiratory tract infections, and to maintain skeletal and general health in preschool and school-age children with acute wheeze is worthwhile in its own right, but whether this will reduce the risk of acute wheeze attacks is unclear.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31278171	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278171	asthma
Thorax	Urbanisation and asthma in low-income and middle-income countries: a systematic review of the urban-rural differences in asthma prevalence.	CRD42017064470.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31278168	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278168	asthma
Allergology international : official journal of the Japanese Society of Allergology	Comparison of extra-fine-particle inhalational corticosteroid add-on therapy with dose-escalation of large-particle inhalational corticosteroid therapy in patients with incompletely controlled asthma.	 	2019	eng	Letter	England	31277957	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277957	asthma
The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Leveraging -omics for asthma endotyping.	Asthma is a highly heterogeneous disease, often manifesting with wheeze, dyspnea, chest tightness, and cough as prominent symptoms. The eliciting factors, natural history, underlying molecular biology, and clinical management of asthma vary highly among affected subjects. Because of this variation, many efforts have gone into subtyping asthma. Endotypes are subtypes of disease based on distinct pathophysiologic mechanisms. Endotypes can be clinically useful because they organize our mechanistic understanding of heterogeneous diseases and can direct treatment toward modalities that are likely to be the most effective. Asthma endotyping can be shaped by clinical features, laboratory parameters, and/or -omics approaches. We discuss the application of -omics approaches, including transcriptomics, epigenomics, microbiomics, metabolomics, and proteomics, to asthma endotyping. -Omics approaches have provided supporting evidence for many existing endotyping paradigms and also suggested novel ways to conceptualize asthma endotypes. Although endotypes based on single -omics approaches are relatively common, their integrated multi-omics application to asthma endotyping has been more limited thus far. We discuss paths forward to integrate multi-omics with clinical features and laboratory parameters to achieve the goal of precise asthma endotypes.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31277743	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277743	asthma
The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	Phenotypes and endotypes of adult asthma: Moving toward precision medicine.	Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways that is challenging to dissect into subgroups because of the heterogeneity present across the spectrum of the disease. Efforts to subclassify asthma using advanced computational methods have identified a number of different phenotypes that suggest that multiple pathobiologically driven clusters of disease exist. The main phenotypes that have been identified include (1) early-onset allergic asthma, (2) early-onset allergic moderate-to-severe remodeled asthma, (3) late-onset nonallergic eosinophilic asthma, and (4) late-onset nonallergic noneosinophilic asthma. Subgroups of these phenotypes also exist but have not been as consistently identified. Advances in our understanding of the diverse immunologic perturbations that drive airway inflammation are consistent with clinical traits associated with these phenotypes and their response to biologic therapies. This has improved the clinician's approach to characterizing asthmatic patients in the clinic. Being able to define asthma endotypes using clinical characteristics and biomarkers will move physicians toward even more personalized management of asthma and precision-based care in the future. Here we will review the most prominent phenotypes and immunologic advances that suggest these disease subtypes represent asthma endotypes.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31277742	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277742	asthma
Allergologia et immunopathologia	Asthma prevalence trends in Chile: a prelude of the Global Asthma Network findings?	 	2019	eng	Editorial	Spain	31277726	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277726	asthma
Particle and fibre toxicology	Surface PEGylation suppresses pulmonary effects of CuO in allergen-induced lung inflammation.	CuO as well as its functionalized forms worsen allergic airway inflammation by causing neutrophilia in the lungs, however, our results also show that surface PEGylation can be a promising approach for inhibiting the effects of pristine CuO. Our study provides information for health and safety assessment of modified CuO materials, and it can be useful in the development of nanomedical applications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31277695	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277695	asthma
 	Focal Liver Lesions	Contrast-enhanced multiphasic MDCT is the most important liver imaging technique in many institutions. When evaluating solid focal liver lesions, disease characterization is based on assessment of contrast enhancement pattern. If a lesion shows peripheral and nodular enhancement, with the density of enhancing portions similar to the vasculature, a hemangioma can be confidently diagnosed. Arterial phase hypervascular lesions include FNH, adenoma, HCC, and metastases from NET, melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, and (sometimes) breast cancer. In general, HCC is considered in a setting of cirrhosis or chronic liver disease. An MR examination of the liver routinely includes dynamic contrast-enhanced pulse sequences and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). DWI’s main clinical benefit is the detection of focal liver lesions, which may be missed on conventional and contrast-enhanced imaging sequences. Liver-specific MR contrast agents have been shown to increase the detection of liver metastases and improve the characterization of FNH and adenoma, as well as the characterization of equivocal lesions in cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314381	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314381	Cirrhosis
 	Imaging of Diffuse and Inflammatory Liver Disease	The incidence of diffuse liver disease, including all causes, is increasing worldwide. On one side this is due to trends in population towards aging and obesity resulting in a higher prevalence of steatosis/steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. On the other side, inflammatory origin, especially due to viral hepatitis, is one of the primary reasons for diffuse liver disease. This chapter will describe the most common imaging features of hepatic metabolic and storage diseases, including overload with fat, iron, copper, and amyloid and diffuse neoplastic diseases. We also discuss focal and diffuse infectious and inflammatory hepatic diseases. Key imaging manifestations of fungal, granulomatous, parasitic, viral, and bacterial as well as the less common hepatic infections such as cat-scratch disease, bacillary angiomatosis, and amebic disease are reviewed to avoid pitfalls in image interpretation. Although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides unique capabilities for noninvasive and quantitative characterization of liver tissue that rival the diagnostic utility of liver biopsies, also characteristic imaging findings with computed tomography (CT) that are useful in daily clinical routine will be discussed.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314369	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314369	Cirrhosis
 	Diffuse Liver Disease: Cirrhosis, Focal Lesions in Cirrhosis, and Vascular Liver Disease	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become one of the most common causes of chronic liver disease. If NAFLD and chronic viral hepatitis remain untreated, patients gradually develop liver fibrosis further progressing to cirrhosis. Significant advances in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MR elastography allow quantification of hepatic steatosis and fibrosis before end-stage liver disease and emerge as noninvasive screening and monitoring tools as an alternative to liver biopsy (Dulai et al. J Hepatol. 65(5):1006–1016, 2016). Cirrhosis is characterized by progressive fibrosis of the liver parenchyma with ongoing regeneration. However, at an early stage of cirrhosis, the liver may appear normal. Patients with cirrhosis are not only at risk of liver failure but also at risk to develop hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and intrahepatic cholangiocellular carcinoma. HCC in cirrhosis either develops in a stepwise carcinogenesis from regenerative nodules to low-grade dysplastic nodule, high-grade dysplastic nodule, and HCC or develops de novo. To facilitate and standardize the categorization of these cirrhotic nodules seen in patients at risk for HCC along a spectrum from benign to malignant, the Liver Imaging Reporting and Data System (LI-RADS) provides a diagnostic algorithm for analysis of cross-sectional images (Santillan et al. Magn Reson Imaging Clin N Am. 22(3):337–352, 2014). HCC differs from most malignancies because it is commonly diagnosed on the basis of imaging features alone, without histological confirmation. Vascular liver disease such as arterioportal shunts may be difficult to distinguish from HCC. Diffuse parenchymal alteration seen in Budd-Chiari syndrome with large hypervascular regenerative nodules can be mistaken for HCC. Portal vein thrombosis occurs in the setting of cirrhosis and HCC and either appears as bland thrombus or tumor thrombus.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314363	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314363	Cirrhosis
Seminars in liver disease	Vascular Targets for the Treatment of Portal Hypertension.	Portal hypertension is the main driver for severe complications in patients with liver cirrhosis. With improved understanding of molecular pathways that promote hepatic vascular remodeling, vasoconstriction, and sinusoidal capillarization potential vascular targets for the treatment of portal hypertension have been identified. Inhibition of vascular endothelial and platelet-derived growth factors-driven angiogenesis has been shown to reduce portal pressure and decrease hepatic inflammation. Angiopoietin/Tie signaling represents additional promising vascular targets in liver disease. The eNOS-NO-sGC-cGMP pathway modulates sinusoidal vasoconstriction and capillarization. Nuclear farnesoid X receptor (FXR) agonists decrease intrahepatic vascular resistance by inhibition of fibrogenesis and sinusoidal remodeling. Statins ameliorate endothelial dysfunction, decrease portal pressure, and reduce fibrogenesis. Anticoagulation with low-molecular heparin or anti-Xa inhibitors improved portal hypertension by deactivation of hepatic stellate cells and potentially via reduction of sinusoidal microthrombosis. This review summarizes important vascular targets for treatment of portal hypertension that have shown promising results in experimental studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315135	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315135	Cirrhosis
Revista brasileira de psiquiatria (Sao Paulo, Brazil : 1999)	Incidence of depression in patients with hepatitis C treated with direct-acting antivirals.	The findings of this study highlight the importance of screening for new depression among patients receiving new DAAs, and identify potential associated risk factors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314868	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314868	Cirrhosis
Acta gastro-enterologica Belgica	The potential of glycomics as prognostic biomarkers in liver disease and liver transplantation.	The study of glycomics is a novel and fascinating approach for the development of biomarkers. It has become clear that in the field of liver disease specific glycomic patters are present in specific disease states, which has led to the development of diagnostic biomarkers. In this manuscript, we will describe two new applications of this technology for the development of prognostic biomarkers. The first biomarker is associated with the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma development in patients with compensated cirrhosis. The second biomarker is present in perfusate and is related to the risk of primary non function occurrence after liver transplantation. The technology used for these biomarkers could easily be implemented on routine capillary electrophoresis equipment.	2019	eng	Review	Belgium	31314193	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314193	Cirrhosis
Acta gastro-enterologica Belgica	The role and indications of albumin in advanced liver disease.	Low serum albumin is common in cirrhosis and is associated with a reduced survival. Moreover, in this setting, the native isoform of albumin can be severely reduced due to several posttranscriptional changes that impair the non-oncotic properties of the molecule. Due to its oncotic power, albumin acts as a powerful plasma expander. As such, it can antagonize the consequences of effective hypovolemia deriving from the systemic hemodynamics abnormalities that characterize advanced cirrhosis. Indeed, the current established indications to the use of albumin in this context pertain to conditions deriving from an acute drop of effective volemia. Recent advances have shown that the pathophysiological background of decompensated cirrhosis is characterized by a sustained systemic inflammatory and pro-oxidant state deriving by an abnormal bacterial translocation from the gut. These abnormalities ultimately lead to the multiorgan dysfunction. In this cascade of events, long-term albumin administration could act against several pathogenic factors through its non-oncotic properties, thus representing a potential multi-target mechanistic treatment. Over the last year, two randomized clinical trials on this topic were published. The ANSWER Trial demonstrated that the long-term albumin administration in patients with decompensated cirrhosis improves overall survival, reduces the incidence of complications and the need of hospitalizations and ameliorates the quality of life, being cost-effective. The MACHT trial challenged these results, but the differences between the two studies (sample size, baseline severity of cirrhosis, length of follow-up and amount of albumin administered) could explain its variant results, providing the basis for further insights into this matter.	2019	eng	Review	Belgium	31314192	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314192	Cirrhosis
Acta gastro-enterologica Belgica	Changes in the patterns and microbiology of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis : analysis of 200 cirrhotic patients.	Changes in the patterns and microbiology of SBP are evident in our region with increasing prevalence of culture negative SBP, extended spectrum beta-lactamases resistant E.Coli, and increased resistance rate to first line antibiotics. Our data argue for relying on periodic hospital based antibiotic susceptibility data whenever SBP is treated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Belgium	31314186	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314186	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Diagnosis and Treatment of Alcohol-Related Liver Diseases: 2019 Practice Guidance from the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.	Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) represents a spectrum of liver injury resulting from alcohol use, ranging from hepatic steatosis to more advanced forms including alcoholic hepatitis (AH), alcoholic cirrhosis (AC), and acute alcoholic hepatitis presenting as acute on chronic liver failure (ACLF). ALD is a major cause of liver disease worldwide, both on its own and as a co-factor in the progression of chronic viral hepatitis, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), iron overload and other liver diseases. ALD develops through several stages, beginning with hepatic steatosis, and, in some individuals, gradually progressing through alcoholic hepatitis (the histological correlate of which is alcoholic steatohepatitis), culminating in cirrhosis (Figure 1). Progression through these various stages is dependent upon continued heavy alcohol consumption and other risk factors, including female sex, genetic susceptibility, diet, and comorbid liver disease. ALD carries a significant stigma in society. It is increasingly recognized by providers that patients and their families seek to reduce the stigma of alcoholic liver disease, and a change from the term "alcoholic" to "alcohol-related" will help; thus, alcohol-related liver disease, alcohol-related steatohepatitis, and alcohol-related cirrhosis are suggested, retaining the familiar abbreviations (ALD, ASH, and AC, respectively). Due to longstanding usage, the term alcoholic hepatitis (AH) will likely persist. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314133	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314133	Cirrhosis
Journal of laparoendoscopic & advanced surgical techniques. Part A	Endoscopic Cyanoacrylate Injection with Lauromacrogol for Gastric Varices: Long-Term Outcomes and Predictors in a Retrospective Cohort Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313965	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313965	Cirrhosis
Hepatology research : the official journal of the Japan Society of Hepatology	Changes in serum zinc levels in hepatitis C patients before and after treatment with direct-acting antiviral agents.	Increases in serum zinc are directly related to DAA treatment and are not a result of increases in albumin. Inhibition of the NS3 and NS5A proteins by DAAs may be associated with the improvement of serum zinc levels in hepatitis C patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313881	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313881	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Incidence, Risk Factors, and Outcomes of Transition of Acute Kidney Injury to Chronic Kidney Disease in Cirrhosis: A Prospective Cohort Study.	Transition to chronic kidney disease (CKD) after an episode of acute kidney injury (AKI) is known in patients without cirrhosis. We studied the incidence and risk factors for development of CKD in cirrhosis patients. Competing risk analysis was performed to identify risk factors for CKD development. Of 818 patients with cirrhosis (age 50.4 ± 11.8 years; 84% males; Model for End-Stage Liver Disease [MELD] 19.9 ± 9.9), 36% had AKI at enrollment, 27% had prior AKI, and 61% developed new episodes of AKI during the follow-up period. CKD developed in 269 (33%) patients. Serum CysC (subdistribution hazard ratio [SHR] 1.58, 1.07-2.33), episodes of prior AKI (SHR 1.26, 1.02-1.56), and AKI stage at enrollment (no AKI [SHR 1] vs. stage 1 [SHR 3.28, 1.30-8.25] vs. stage 2 [SHR 4.33, 1.76-10.66] vs. stage 3 [SHR 4.5, 1.59-12.73]) were identified as baseline risk factors for CKD development. On time-varying competing risk analysis, MELD (SHR 1.01, 1-1.03), number of AKI episodes (SHR 1.25, 1.15-1.37), and CysC (SHR 1.38, 1.01-1.89) predicted CKD development. Development of CKD was associated with higher risk of death. Reduction in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) not meeting CKD criteria was seen in 66% of patients with cirrhosis, more so in those with previous AKI episodes and a high CysC level and MELD score. Renal histology available in 55 patients, showed tubulointerstitial injury in 86%, cholemic nephrosis in 29%, and glomerular changes in 38%. CONCLUSION: Almost two-thirds of patients with cirrhosis develop episodes of AKI and reduction in GFR; a third progress to CKD, resulting in adverse outcomes. Higher MELD and CysC levels and number of AKI episodes predict development of CKD in patients with cirrhosis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313333	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313333	Cirrhosis
Hepatology international	The first Chinese guidelines on the Management of Ascites and its Related Complications in Cirrhosis: a great goal for a great country.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313026	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313026	Cirrhosis
Digestive diseases and sciences	Long-Term Outcomes of Transarterial Chemoembolization Combined with Radiofrequency Ablation Versus Transarterial Chemoembolization Alone for Recurrent Hepatocellular Carcinoma After Surgical Resection.	In patients with recurrent HCC ≤ 5 cm, TACE-RFA shows better DFS than TACE alone as a first-line local therapy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312995	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312995	Cirrhosis
Digestive diseases and sciences	Liver Transplantation for Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis: Pathophysiology of Recurrence and Clinical Challenges.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is the fastest-growing indication for the liver transplant and a leading cause of hepatocellular carcinoma among patients listed for liver transplantation in the USA. Post-transplant nonalcoholic hepatic steatosis and steatohepatitis are frequent complications of liver transplantation. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis poses a significant challenge in both pre- and post-transplant period due to its association with metabolic syndrome, coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease, and obstructive sleep apnea. While optimal therapy is not yet available in the post-liver transplant setting, lifestyle interventions continue to remain as the mainstay of therapy for post-transplant nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Early recognition with protocol biopsies and noninvasive modalities, along with modification of known risk factors, are the most effective methods to curtail the progression of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in the absence of FDA-approved pharmacologic therapy.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31312990	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312990	Cirrhosis
Naunyn-Schmiedeberg's archives of pharmacology	Liver damage in bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice.	Pulmonary fibrosis is an emerging disease with a poor prognosis and high mortality rate that is even surpassing some types of cancer. This disease has been linked to the concomitant appearance of liver cirrhosis. Bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis is a widely used mouse model that mimics the histopathological and biochemical features of human systemic sclerosis, an autoimmune disease that is associated with inflammation and expressed in several corporal systems as fibrosis or other alterations. To determine the effects on proliferation, redox and inflammation protein expression markers were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Analyses showed a significant increase in protein oxidation levels by lipoperoxidation bio-products and in proliferation and inflammation processes. These phenomena were associated with the induction of the redox status in mice subjected to 100 U/kg bleomycin. These findings clearly show that the bleomycin model induces histopathological alterations in the liver and partially reproduces the complexity of systemic sclerosis. Our results using the bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis model provide a protocol to investigate the mechanism underlying the molecular alteration found in the liver linked to systemic sclerosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312848	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312848	Cirrhosis
ACS medicinal chemistry letters	Discovery of a Novel Selective Dual Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor α/δ Agonist for the Treatment of Primary Biliary Cirrhosis.	A novel peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α/δ dual agonist 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312410	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312410	Cirrhosis
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Lipid Profile in Alcoholic and Non Alcoholic Patients of Chronic Liver Disease - A Comparative and Analytical Study in a Rural-based Tertiary Care Centre.	Serum lipid parameters were significantly lower in the cirrhotics than in the healthy normal group. Thus, studies of lipid profile may guide us in the prognosis and treatment of alcoholic cirrhosis in the near future.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31311213	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311213	Cirrhosis
Cancers	Transarterial Chemoembolization of Hepatocellular Carcinoma with Idarubicin-Loaded Tandem Drug-Eluting Embolics.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311170	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311170	Cirrhosis
 	Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common complication of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Most times it is an unrecognized comorbidity to the primary care provider and endocrinologist. Today it is the most common chronic liver disease in developed countries. It is characterized by insulin resistance and hepatic triglyceride accumulation in the absence of co-existing etiologies, such as excessive alcohol consumption, viral hepatitis, medications or other etiologies for hepatic steatosis. Its more severe form of the disease with steatohepatitis (NASH) is associated with hepatocyte injury (necrosis and inflammation) and frequently with fibrosis. Although it appears to be an indolent condition, with few symptoms and often normal plasma aminotransferases, NASH is a leading cause of end-stage liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and significantly increases the risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD) and T2DM. The pathogenesis of NASH remains poorly understood, and likely to be multifactorial, but insulin-resistant adipose tissue plays an important role. The natural history of NAFLD is incompletely understood, but risk factors for disease progression include weight gain, obesity and T2DM, as well as the severity of fibrosis stage at diagnosis. Diagnostic algorithms are evolving but we offer an approach that integrates for the non-hepatologist plasma biomarkers, imaging, and the role of liver biopsy for the management of these complex patients. At the present time, early screening -with biomarker panels or a liver ultrasound, ideally with transient elastography- is reserved for high-risk patients (i.e., obese patients with T2DM or elevated plasma AST/ALT levels or evidence of steatosis at a random liver exam) until more accurate non-invasive methods are available. A liver biopsy should be considered on a case-by-case basis, to identify those at risk of NASH-cirrhosis, working in close collaboration with a hepatologist. Treatment should include a comprehensive approach with lifestyle modification and therapeutic agents tested in RCTs, such as vitamin E (in patients without diabetes) or pioglitazone for patients with or without diabetes. Pioglitazone, given its low-cost as a generic medication, long-standing track record of efficacy in NASH, and cardiometabolic benefits, is likely to be for NASH what metformin has become for the management of T2DM. However, proper patient selection and close monitoring is needed. In addition, a number of new pharmacological agents are being studied in phase II/III trials and future management will involve the use of combination therapy, as for other chronic metabolic conditions. In summary, endocrinologists need to be aware of the severe metabolic and liver-specific complications of NASH and establish early-on a long-term management plan. Screening will likely take place in the same way as for diabetic retinopathy or nephropathy. A better understanding of its natural history and pathogenesis of NASH, combined with improved diagnostic and treatment options, will likely place endocrinologists at the forefront of the management efforts to prevent end-stage liver disease in patients with NASH. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG.	2019	eng	Review	 	31310460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310460	Cirrhosis
Annals of diagnostic pathology	Elevated Mortalin correlates with poor outcome in hepatocellular carcinoma.	Although several lines of evidence existed suggesting that Mortalin was linked with survival in malignant tumors; it has been barely described regarding the prognostic involvement of its expression in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Herein, to understand the prognostic meaning of Mortalin expression, Immunohistochemistry was undertaken to observe the immunohistochemical characteristics of Mortalin on HCC tissue microarray consisting of 90 cases of HCC and its paired normal control dots, followed by detailed statistical analysis with the accompanying clinicopathological variables available, including gender, age, tumor size, differentiation, cirrhosis, vascular invasion, clinical stage, T classification and intrahepatic metastases. Meanwhile, Kaplan-Meier survival curve was plotted to analyze the prognostic difference for patients with high and low expression of Mortalin. It was exhibited that Mortalin was over-expressed in HCC tissues relative to paired normal control and elevated Mortalin significantly correlated with vascular invasion, clinical stage and intrahepatic metastasis. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed that Mortalin was remarkably associated with overall survival and disease-free survival. Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that expression of Mortalin was an independent prognostic factor in HCC. Collectively, the data we provided here support the prognostic prediction value of Mortalin in HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310900	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310900	Cirrhosis
Journal of cellular biochemistry	Codon usage of human hepatitis C virus clearance genes in relation to its expression.	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is among the leading causes of hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis globally, with a high economic burden. The disease progression is well established, but less is known about the spontaneous HCV infection clearance. This study tries to establish the relationship between codon biasness and expression of HCV clearance candidate genes in normal and HCV infected liver tissues. A total of 112 coding sequences comprising 151 679 codons were subjected to the computation of codon indices, namely relative synonymous codon usage, an effective number of codon (Nc), frequency of optimal codon, codon adaptation index, codon bias index, and base compositions. Codon indices report of GC3s, GC12, hydropathicity, and aromaticity implicates both mutational and translational selection in the candidate gene set. This was further correlated with the differentially expressed genes among the selected genes using BioGPS. A significant correlation is observed between the gene expression of normal liver and cancerous liver tissues with codon bias (Nc). Gene expression is also correlated with relative codon bias values, indicating that CCL5, APOA2, CD28, IFITM1, and TNFSF4 genes have higher expression. These results are quite encouraging in selecting the high responsive genes in HCV clearance. However, there could be additional genes which could also orchestrate the clearance role with the above mentioned first line of defensive genes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310376	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310376	Cirrhosis
Radiology	LI-RADS Version 2017 versus Version 2018: Diagnosis of Hepatocellular Carcinoma on Gadoxetate Disodium-enhanced MRI.	Background Few studies have reported on the diagnostic performance of Liver Imaging Reporting and Data System (LI-RADS) LR-5 or LR-5 V in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) using MRI with gadoxetate disodium. Purpose To determine the diagnostic performance of LI-RADS version 2018 (hereafter, v2018) on gadoxetate disodium-enhanced MRI in comparison with LI-RADS version 2017 (hereafter, v2017) for the diagnosis of HCC in patients with cirrhosis or chronic hepatitis B viral infection or at high risk for HCC. Materials and Methods This retrospective study between January 2013 and October 2015 evaluated consecutive patients at high risk for HCC who had at least one observation of 10 mm or greater on gadoxetate disodium-enhanced MRI and no history of previous treatment for hepatic lesions. MRI features were reviewed by three radiologists. Observations were categorized according to LI-RADS v2018 and LI-RADS v2017. Per-observation sensitivity and specificity of LR-5 using LI-RADS v2017 and v2018 were compared using generalized estimating equation models. Results A total of 422 observations, including 234 HCCs confirmed by results of pathologic examination in 387 patients (305 men and 82 women; mean age ± standard deviation, 59 years ± 10), were included. In all observations, LI-RADS v2018 provided higher sensitivity than LI-RADS v2017 (81% [189 of 234] vs 68% [160 of 234], respectively; 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310175	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310175	Cirrhosis
Molecular genetics & genomic medicine	The roles of transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 rs58542926 polymorphism in chronic liver disease: A meta-analysis of 24,147 subjects.	These results suggested that TM6SF2 rs58542926 could be used to identify individuals at higher susceptibility to chronic liver disease, especially for HCC, cirrhosis, ALD, and NAFLD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309745	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309745	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Diabetes is Associated with Increased Risk of Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Cirrhosis Patients with Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease.	Diabetes increases the risk of liver disease progression and cirrhosis development in patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The association between diabetes and the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in NASH cirrhosis patients is not well quantified. All patients with the diagnosis of NASH cirrhosis seen at Mayo Clinic Rochester between January 2006 and December 2015 were identified. All adult liver transplant registrants with NASH between 2004 and 2017 were identified using the UNOS/OPTN registry for external validation. Cox proportional hazard analysis was performed to investigate the association between diabetes and HCC risk. Among 354 Mayo Clinic patients with NASH cirrhosis, 253 (71%) had diabetes and 145 (41%) were male. Mean age at cirrhosis evaluation was 62. During a median follow up of 47 months, 30 patients developed HCC. Diabetes was associated with an increased risk of developing HCC in univariate (hazard ratio [HR] = 3.6, 95% confidence interval [CI] =1.1-11.9, P=0.04) and multivariable analysis (HR = 4.2, 95% CI =1.2-14.2, P=0.02). In addition, age (per decade: HR = 1.8, 95% CI =1.2-2.6, P<0.01) and low serum albumin (HR = 2.1, 95% CI =1.5-2.9, P<0.01) were significantly associated with an increased risk of developing HCC in multivariable analysis. Other metabolic risk factors including BMI, hyperlipidemia and hypertension were not associated with HCC risk. Among UNOS NASH registrants (N=6,630), 58% had diabetes. Diabetes was associated with an increased risk of developing HCC in univariate (HR = 1.4, 95% CI =1.1-1.8, P<0.01) and multivariable (HR = 1.3, 95% CI =1.0-1.7, P=0.03) analysis. In conclusion, diabetes is associated with an increased risk of HCC in patients with NASH cirrhosis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309602	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309602	Cirrhosis
Molecular genetics and metabolism reports	Reversal of life-threatening hepatopulmonary syndrome in Gaucher disease by imiglucerase enzyme replacement therapy.	Effect of imiglucerase enzyme replacement therapy on Hepatopulmonary Syndrome in Gaucher Disease.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31309038	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309038	Cirrhosis
Annals of transplantation	Prognostic Impact of Peritransplant Serum Sodium Concentrations in Liver Transplantation.	BACKGROUND Serum sodium (Na) is considered to reflect the severity of liver cirrhosis. In the last few years, much effort has been made to integrate this association into prognostic models after liver transplantation. The aim of this study was to investigate the associations between peritransplant Na and neurological complications, as well as short-term survival, after liver transplantation. MATERIAL AND METHODS A total of 306 liver transplantations between 2012 and 2015 were evaluated. Pre- and posttransplant sodium concentrations were investigated with regard to 3-month survival and incidence of posttransplant neurological complications, along with other factors present in the operative side of the recipient and donor. RESULTS The 3-month survival rate was 94%. Neither hyponatremia (<130 mEq/L) nor hypernatremia (>145 mEq/L) at pretransplantion predicted 3-month survival. A large amount of intraoperative blood transfusion and a large delta Na showed a significant association with poor outcomes at 3 months. On multivariate analysis, the requirement of blood transfusion and warm ischemia time remained independent prognostic factors for 3-month mortality. Hyponatremia and a large delta Na tended to lead to the frequent development of neurological complications. These complications, secondary to rapid Na correction, were concerning and potentially led to a prolonged hospital stay and early mortality. CONCLUSIONS Rapid change in the sodium level might be caused by large amounts of blood transfusion products. This leads to a diminished short-term survival, as well as a higher rate of neurological complications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308357	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308357	Cirrhosis
Clinical nutrition (Edinburgh, Scotland)	Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment and Computed Tomography in the assessment of malnutrition and sarcopenia in patients with cirrhosis: Is there any association?	Malnutrition and sarcopenia were highly prevalent in patients with hepatic cirrhosis and should be assessed routinely in clinical practice. PG-SGA can be considered a good marker of sarcopenia that can be used in clinical practice.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307841	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307841	Cirrhosis
Advances in pharmacology (San Diego, Calif.)	Drug-induced liver injury in obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Obesity is commonly associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL), a benign condition characterized by hepatic lipid accumulation. However, NAFL can progress in some patients to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and then to severe liver lesions including extensive fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The entire spectrum of these hepatic lesions is referred to as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The transition of simple fatty liver to NASH seems to be favored by several genetic and environmental factors. Different experimental and clinical investigations showed or suggested that obesity and NAFLD are able to increase the risk of hepatotoxicity of different drugs. Some of these drugs may cause more severe and/or more frequent acute liver injury in obese individuals whereas others may trigger the transition of simple fatty liver to NASH or may worsen hepatic lipid accumulation, necroinflammation and fibrosis. This review presents the available information regarding drugs that may cause a specific risk in the context of obesity and NAFLD. These drugs, which belong to different pharmacological classes, include acetaminophen, halothane, methotrexate, rosiglitazone and tamoxifen. For some of these drugs, experimental investigations confirmed the clinical observations and unveiled different pathophysiological mechanisms which may explain why these pharmaceuticals are particularly hepatotoxic in obesity and NAFLD. Because obese people often take several drugs for the treatment of different obesity-related diseases, there is an urgent need to identify the main pharmaceuticals that may cause acute liver injury on a fatty liver background or that may enhance the risk of severe chronic liver disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307592	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307592	Cirrhosis
Advances in pharmacology (San Diego, Calif.)	Role and mechanisms of autophagy in alcohol-induced liver injury.	Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is one of the major causes of chronic liver disease worldwide. Currently, no successful treatments are available for ALD. The pathogenesis of ALD is characterized as simple steatosis, fibrosis, cirrhosis, alcoholic hepatitis (AH), and eventually hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Autophagy is a highly conserved intracellular catabolic process, which aims at recycling cellular components and removing damaged organelles in response to starvation and stresses. Therefore, autophagy is considered as an important cellular adaptive and survival mechanism under various pathophysiological conditions. Recent studies from our lab and others suggest that chronic alcohol consumption may impair autophagy and contribute to the pathogenesis of ALD. In this chapter, we summarize recent progress on the role and mechanisms of autophagy in the development of ALD. Understanding the roles of autophagy in ALD may offer novel therapeutic avenues against ALD by targeting these pathways.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307584	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307584	Cirrhosis
Medicine	Erratum: Thromboelastometry: Relation to the severity of liver cirrhosis in patients considered for liver transplantation: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000007101.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305687	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305687	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Reply to Letter: Nonselective beta blockers versus variceal band ligation, beyond bleeding prophylaxis.	We thank Gin-Ho Lo for taking interest in our study and for the comments.(1) Dr. Lo raises important points comparing the different adverse effect profiles of nonselective beta-blockers (NSBB) and variceal band ligation (VBL). Current guidelines still recommend the use of either NSBB or VBLfor the primary prevention of esophageal variceal bleeding and the debate is likely to continue.(2) In our systematic review and network meta-analysis, when compared toVBL, NSBB were associated with higher rate of overall adverse events, resulting in treatment discontinuation. On the other hand, VBL was associated with three times greater number of serious adverse events.(1) Therefore, NSBBs still represent a less invasive prophylactic measure with additional benefits beyond prevention of variceal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Letter	United States	31306502	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306502	Cirrhosis
Critical care medicine	Declining Mortality of Cirrhotic Variceal Bleeding Requiring Admission to Intensive Care: A Binational Cohort Study.	Admission rate to ICU and mortality of cirrhotic patients with variceal bleeding has declined significantly over time compared with other causes of ICU admissions with the outcomes comparable between liver transplant and nontransplant centers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306178	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306178	Cirrhosis
Medicine	The effect of fecal microbiota transplantation on Hepatic myelopathy: A case report.	FMT may be another effective way to treat HM. It is cheaper, more operable, and simpler than the approved treatment and worthy of further research.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305466	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305466	Cirrhosis
Medicine	Cryptococcal pleuritis with pleural effusion as the only clinical presentation in a patient with hepatic cirrhosis: A case report and literature review.	Similar cases in cryptococcal pleuritis patients with pleural effusion as the only clinical presentation in the literature are also reviewed. Through literature review, we recommend that pleural effusion cryptococcal antigen test should be used to diagnose cryptococcal pleuritis to reduce misdiagnosis. The early administration of antifungal drug with activity to Cryptococcus seemed beneficial in preventing dissemination of cryptococcosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305427	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305427	Cirrhosis
Annals of surgery	ALPPS Versus Portal Vein Embolization for Hepatitis-related Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Changing Paradigm in Modulation of Future Liver Remnant Before Major Hepatectomy.	ALPPS conferred a higher resection rate in hepatitis-related HCC with comparable short- and long-term oncological outcome with PVE.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305284	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305284	Cirrhosis
Journal of clinical gastroenterology	Carvedilol Combined With Ivabradine Improves Left Ventricular Diastolic Dysfunction, Clinical Progression, and Survival in Cirrhosis.	Ivabradine combined with carvedilol improves LVDD, achieves THR more often and reduces risk of encephalopathy, acute kidney injury with improved survival in patients with cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305281	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305281	Cirrhosis
Journal of investigative surgery : the official journal of the Academy of Surgical Research	Role of Matrix Metallopeptidase 12 in the Development of Hepatocellular Carcinoma.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304819	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304819	Cirrhosis
Expert review of gastroenterology & hepatology	Primary and secondary prophylaxis of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis: current state of the art.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304804	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304804	Cirrhosis
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Correlation of Thyroid Function Test with Severity of Liver Dysfunction in Cirrhosis of Liver.	Prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism with cirrhosis was 62%. 31 out of 50 patients had subclinical hypothyroidism. The study showed that prevalence of hypothyroidism in cirrhosis patients increases as the severity of cirrhosis increases and findings were statistically significant (p value 0.00).This study found association between serum T3 and severity of liver disease. As the severity of cirrhosis increases which is indicated by Child Pugh A to C, serum level of T3 reduces and findings were statistically significant (p value 0.00).All 50 patients of cirrhosis had their serum T4 level within normal limit and it does not change with severity of liver disease. This study found association between serum FT4 and severity of liver disease. As the severity of cirrhosis increases which is indicated by Child Pugh A to C, serum level of FT4 fall in low-normal or below normal value and findings were statistically significant (p value 0.00). This study found association between serum FT3 and severity of liver disease. As the severity of cirrhosis increases which is indicated by Child Pugh A to C, serum level of FT3 reduces. All patients of Child Pugh C had low FT3 level and the findings were statistically significant (p value 0.00). This study showed that serum bilirubin, prothombin time, INR, TSH level increases and serum albumin level, T3, FT3, and FT4 level reduces as the severity of cirrhosis increases.According to this study all cirrhotic patients should undergo thyroid function evaluation as these patients are definitely associated with development of hypothyroidism. There is significant inverse correlation between serum level of T3, FT3, and FT4 with severity of cirrhosis. These parameters can be used as markers to indicate the severity of cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31304707	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304707	Cirrhosis
Hepatology communications	A Single-Center Experience on Outcomes of Complementary and Alternative Medicine Use Among Patients With Cirrhosis.	Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) due to complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) use is on the rise throughout the world by patients looking for "safer" alternatives. However, data on acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) due to CAM are lacking. In a large cohort of patients with cirrhosis, we retrospectively studied CAM-related health-seeking behavior and attempted to identify those who developed possible CAM-DILI-related ACLF. In this study, we examine the clinical, biochemical, and liver histopathologic characteristics of possible CAM-DILI-related ACLF, describe implicated CAM agents, and discuss predictors of patient outcomes. Out of 1,666 patients with cirrhosis, 68% used CAM at some point. A total of 35.7% (n = 30/84) patients presented with CAM-related DILI leading to ACLF in the whole CAM-DILI-related decompensation cohort. The most common CAM was unlabeled polyherbal Ayurvedic formulations. Of possible patients with ACLF, 63% self-medicated with CAM based on social media sharing. Mean age ± SD was 51.9 ± 9.9 years, 83% were male patients, median follow-up duration was 173 (range, 14-584) days, median Child-Turcotte-Pugh score was 13 (range, 10-14), Model for End-Stage Liver Disease-sodium score was 30.1 ± 4.8, median chronic liver failure-organ failure (CLIF-C-OF) score was 11 (range, 8-14), and median CLIF-C-ACLF score was 98 (range, 87-127). Portal-based neutrophilic predominant mixed inflammation, hepatocyte ballooning, autoimmune-like features, and severe cholestasis were seen on liver biopsy. Overall, 53% of patients died (median survival 194 days). Baseline overt hepatic encephalopathy and CLIF-C-OF score, total bilirubin, hyponatremia and leukocytosis, and grade of ACLF predicted 1-, 3-, 6- and 12-month mortality, respectively. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304453	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304453	Cirrhosis
Hepatology communications	Emricasan Ameliorates Portal Hypertension and Liver Fibrosis in Cirrhotic Rats Through a Hepatocyte-Mediated Paracrine Mechanism.	In cirrhosis, liver microvascular dysfunction is a key factor increasing hepatic vascular resistance to portal blood flow, which leads to portal hypertension. De-regulated inflammatory and pro-apoptotic processes due to chronic injury play important roles in the dysfunction of liver sinusoidal cells. The present study aimed at characterizing the effects of the pan-caspase inhibitor emricasan on systemic and hepatic hemodynamics, hepatic cells phenotype, and underlying mechanisms in preclinical models of advanced chronic liver disease. We investigated the effects of 7-day emricasan on hepatic and systemic hemodynamics, liver function, hepatic microcirculatory function, inflammation, fibrosis, hepatic cells phenotype, and paracrine interactions in rats with advanced cirrhosis due to chronic CCl	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304452	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304452	Cirrhosis
IDCases	None	None	2019	eng	Case Reports	Netherlands	31304090	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304090	Cirrhosis
Zhong nan da xue xue bao. Yi xue ban = Journal of Central South University. Medical sciences	[A preliminary study on predicting anastomotic occlusion in patients with cirrhosis underwent splenectomy combined with splenorenal shunt by ultrasonography].	目的：利用超声技术预测肝硬化脾切除联合脾肾静脉分流术后吻合口闭塞。方法：回顾性分析肝硬化门静脉高压行脾切除联合脾肾静脉分流术患者53例，依据门静脉系统CT对脾肾静脉吻合口通畅性的检查结果，将患者分为通畅组39例和闭塞组14例。比较两组门静脉和脾静脉内径、血流速度及血流量、血栓形成情况、血流方向等超声指标，分析预测脾肾静脉吻合口闭塞的影响因素。结果：与通畅组比较，闭塞组门静脉内径增宽，脾静脉内径变窄、血栓形成、血流速度降低、血流量减少、血流呈向肝性改变，差异有统计学意义(均P<0.05)。结论：门静脉内径增宽，脾静脉内径变窄、血栓形成、血流速度降低、血流量减少、血流呈向肝性改变等超声指标是预测肝硬化脾切除联合脾肾静脉分流术后脾肾静脉吻合口闭塞的影响因素。.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31303622	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303622	Cirrhosis
Zhong nan da xue xue bao. Yi xue ban = Journal of Central South University. Medical sciences	[CT-based estimation of liver function using arterial enhancement fraction in liver cirrhosis patients].	目的：探讨CT动脉增强分数(arterial enhancement fraction，AEF)评估肝硬化患者肝功能损伤程度的可行性及临床价值。方法：前瞻性招募符合纳入及排除标准的52例肝硬化患者(Child-Pugh A，B，C级肝硬化患者组分别为13，20及19例)和17例无肝脏疾病者作为对照。受试者均行肝3期增强CT扫描，利用CT Kinetics软件进行后处理获得AEF彩图及其定量参数肝AEF(hepatic AEF，HAEF)、肝与脾AEF比值(H/S)。比较不同Child-Pugh级别间HAEF，H/S的差异，并计算受试者工作特征曲线下面积(area under the receiver operating characteristic curve，AUROC)，对肝硬化患者的HAEF，H/S与终末期肝病模型(model for end-stage liver disease，MELD)评分进行Spearman相关性分析。结果：HAEF，H/S的观察者间一致性高，组内相关系数(intraclass correlation coefficient，ICC)分别为0.918(95% CI：0.871~0.949)，0.946(95% CI：0.915~0.966)。对照组与Child-Pugh A，B，C级肝硬化患者组间的HAEF，H/S差异有统计学意义(均P<0.001)；肝硬化患者HAEF，H/S随Child-Pugh分级增加呈升高趋势，且除Child-Pugh A级组与B级组H/S外差异均有统计学意义(均P<0.001)。在所有肝硬化患者中，HAEF，H/S用于诊断Child-Pugh A级的AUROC分别为0.933，0.821；用于诊断Child-Pugh C级的AUROC分别为0.925，0.915。肝硬化患者HAEF，H/S与MELD评分呈显著正相关(HAEF：r=0.752，P<0.001；H/S：r=0.676，P<0.001)。结论：CT AEF相关参数HAEF，H/S与肝硬化严重程度及预后密切相关，能简单、有效地评估肝功能损伤状况。.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31303608	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303608	Cirrhosis
Mayo Clinic proceedings	Prevalence and Predictors of Third-Generation Cephalosporin Resistance in the Empirical Treatment of Spontaneous Bacterial Peritonitis.	These findings support the recent observation of a rising prevalence of gram-positive organisms in SBP. Despite the changing pattern, third-generation cephalosporins seem to provide adequate empirical treatment in patients with community-acquired and health care-associated SBP without hepatocellular carcinoma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303428	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303428	Cirrhosis
Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society	Supersonic shear-wave elastography and APRI for the detection and staging of liver disease in pediatric cystic fibrosis.	SSWE-determined LSM shows good diagnostic accuracy in detecting CFLD in children, which was improved when combined with APRI. SSWE alone discriminates advanced CFLD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303380	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303380	Cirrhosis
The International journal on drug policy	An intervention to improve HCV testing, linkage to care, and treatment among people who use drugs in Tehran, Iran: The ENHANCE study.	Following on-site HCV testing and linkage to care, HCV treatment uptake was extremely high among PWUD, apart from the homeless reception population. This intervention could be explored in other settings globally to enhance HCV scale-up and elimination efforts.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31303262	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303262	Cirrhosis
Journal of cardiovascular magnetic resonance : official journal of the Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance	Increased extracellular volume in the liver of pediatric Fontan patients.	Retrospectively registered data.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303178	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303178	Cirrhosis
Ultrasonography (Seoul, Korea)	Patchy echogenicity of the liver in patients with chronic hepatitis B does not indicate poorer elasticity.	The presence of patchy echogenicity of the liver does not indicate a higher degree of liver stiffness.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31302950	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302950	Cirrhosis
Handbook of experimental pharmacology	Bile Acid-Activated Receptors: GPBAR1 (TGR5) and Other G Protein-Coupled Receptors.	The BA-responsive GPCRs S1PR2 and TGR5 are almost ubiquitously expressed in human and rodent tissues. In the liver, S1PR2 is expressed in all cell types, while TGR5 is predominately found in non-parenchymal cells. In contrast to S1PR2, which is mainly activated by conjugated bile acids (BAs), all BAs serve as ligands for TGR5 irrespective of their conjugation state and substitution pattern.Mice with targeted deletion of either S1PR2 or TGR5 are viable and develop no overt phenotype. In liver injury models, S1PR2 exerts pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic effects and thus aggravates liver damage, while TGR5 mediates anti-inflammatory, anti-cholestatic, and anti-fibrotic effects. Thus, inhibitors of S1PR2 signaling and agonists for TGR5 have been employed to attenuate liver injury in rodent models for cholestasis, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, and fibrosis/cirrhosis.In biliary epithelial cells, both receptors activate a similar signaling cascade resulting in ERK1/2 phosphorylation and cell proliferation. Overexpression of both S1PR2 and TGR5 was found in human cholangiocarcinoma tissue as well as in CCA cell lines, where stimulation of both GPCRs resulted in transactivation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and triggered cell proliferation as well as increased cell migration and invasiveness.This chapter will focus on the function of S1PR2 and TGR5 in different liver cell types and summarizes current knowledge on the role of these receptors in liver disease models.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302759	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302759	Cirrhosis
International journal of surgery case reports	Advanced Merkel cell carcinoma of the lower extremity treated with surgery and isolated pelvic and limb perfusion using Melphalan: A case of unexpected long-term survival.	In this case, surgery combined with locoregional Melphalan chemotherapy was an effective and repeatable treatment for recurrent MMC and resulted in unexpected long-term survival.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302319	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302319	Cirrhosis
Journal of hepatology	Excellent safety and effectiveness of high dose myrcludex-b monotherapy administered for 48 weeks in hdv related compensated cirrhosis: a case report of three patients.	Short-term administration of the entry inhibitor Mycludex-B (MyrB) has been shown to be safe and effective in phase II studies in HBV/HDV co-infected patients. However, its effectiveness and safety during long-term and high-dose treatment in compensated cirrhotics in real-life settings are unknown. Here we describe the first three European patients with HDV-related compensated cirrhosis who were treated with MyrB 10 mg/day for 48 weeks as a compassionate therapy. Liver function tests, bile acids, and virological markers were monitored every 4 weeks. In two cases, also HDV/HBV-specific T cell quantity (up to 48 and 36 weeks) and HBV RNA levels were assessed. During MyrB treatment, HDV RNA levels progressively declined from 4.4 and 5.6 logs IU/mL to undetectability for the first two cases, and from 6.8 log cp/mL to 500 cp/mL for the other patient. ALT normalized in 20, 12 and 28 weeks, respectively. A significant improvement in portal hypertension features, liver function tests and AFP levels were documented in two cases. In the male patient with histological and clinical stigmata of autoimmune hepatitis, IgG and immunoglobulins rapidly normalized. No significant changes of HBsAg levels and circulating HDV/HBV-specific T cells were demonstrated; HBV DNA and HBV RNA levels remained undetectable throughout the study period. MyrB was well tolerated; patients remained fully asymptomatic despite a significant increase of bile acids. In conclusion, this report shows excellent safety and effectiveness of a 48-week course of MyrB 10 mg/day, combined with TDF, for the treatment of HDV compensated cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302176	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302176	Cirrhosis
Journal of hepatology	News in Pathophysiology, Definition and Classification of Hepatorenal Syndrome: a step beyond the International Club of Ascites (ICA) Consensus document.	Renal dysfunction is a common, life-threatening complication occurring in patients with liver disease. Hepatorenal syndrome (HRS) has been defined as a purely "functional" type of renal failure that often occurs in patients with cirrhosis in the setting of marked abnormalities in arterial circulation, as well as overactivity of the endogenous vasoactive systems (4-5). HRS has been classified by the ICA in 2007 into two types, HRS-1 and HRS-2 (5). HRS-1 is characterized by a rapid deterioration of renal function that often occurs because of a precipitating event, while HRS-2 is a moderate and stable or slowly progressive renal dysfunction that often occurs without an obvious precipitant. Clinically, HRS-1 is characterized by acute renal failure while HRS-2 is mainly characterized by refractory ascites. Nevertheless, after these two entities were first described, new concepts, definitions, and diagnostic criteria have been developed by nephrologists for renal dysfunction in the general population and hospitalized patients. In particular, the definitions and characterization of Acute Kidney Injury (AKI), Acute Kidney Disease (AKD) and Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) have been introduced/refined (6). Accordingly, a debate among hepatologists of the International Club of Ascites (ICA), led to a complete revision of the nomenclature and diagnosis of HRS-1, renaming it as HRS-AKI (7). Additionally, over recent years, greater granularity has also been gained regarding the pathogenesis of HRS and it is now increasingly recognized that it is not a purely "functional" entity with hemodynamic derangements but that systemic inflammation, oxidative stress and bile salt-related tubular damage may contribute significantly to its development. That is, HRS has an additional structural component that would not only make traditional diagnostic criteria less reliable but would explain the lack of response to pharmacological treatment with vasoconstrictors plus albumin that correlates with a progressive increase in inflammation. Because classification, nomenclature, diagnostic criteria and pathogenic theories have evolved over the years since the traditional classification of HRS-1 and HRS-2 was first described, it was considered that all these novel aspects be reviewed and summarized in a position paper. The aim of this position paper authored by two hepatologists (members of ICA) and two nephrologists involved in the study of renal dysfunction in cirrhosis, is to complete the re-classification of HRS initiated by the ICA in 2012 and to update the knowledge on the definition, classification, diagnosis, pathophysiology and treatment of HRS.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31302175	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302175	Cirrhosis
Diagnostic and interventional imaging	Acetic acid versus radiofrequency ablation for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma: A randomized controlled trial.	PAAI and RFA have similar efficacy in treating small HCC. PAAI could thus be a cost-effective alternative in situations where RFA is either unavailable or unaffordable.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31302075	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302075	Cirrhosis
Romanian journal of internal medicine = Revue roumaine de medecine interne	The role of spleen stiffness using ARFI in predicting esophageal varices in patients with Hepatitis B and C virus-related cirrhosis.	SS measured using ARFI is a good method of detecting EV and is an excellent method of diagnosing large EV in patients with virus-related cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31301679	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301679	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	The obsolence of sclerotherapy.	I read with great interest the recent practice guidance on development of quality measures in cirrhosis (1). I commend the authors for producing a set of measures which will enable healthcare professionals and service providers to evaluate quality of care and drive improvement. I am, however, somewhat concerned by the inclusion of sclerotherapy in their process measure 11, "patients with cirrhosis who are found to have bleeding esophageal varices should receive EVL or sclerotherapy at the time of index endoscopy" (1). This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Letter	United States	31301238	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301238	Cirrhosis
Liver transplantation : official publication of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and the International Liver Transplantation Society	Nutritional Assessment in Inpatients with Cirrhosis can be Improved after Training and is Associated with Lower Readmissions.	Malnutrition is widely prevalent in cirrhosis, which can worsen sarcopenia, hepatic encephalopathy (HE) and the overall prognosis. We aimed to define the frequency of nutritional assessment of cirrhotic patients retrospectively and after training, evaluate prospective changes along with its effect on 90-day readmissions. This study was conducted in two phases. Retrospectively, records of hospitalized cirrhotic patients from University and Veterans Affairs(VA) settings were reviewed to assess nutritional status, if nutrition consult was placed, number of days patients were nil per oral (NPO) and received inadequate nutrition, and if nutritional management was guideline directed. In prospective phase: after dedicated educational efforts directed at the stakeholders regarding cirrhosis nutritional guidelines, subsequently hospitalized cirrhosis patients had nutritional and 90-day readmission data collected for comparison between groups. 279 patients were included in the retrospective (150 University/129 VA) and 102 VA patients were in the prospective phase. Cirrhosis severity, reason for admission, hospital course was similar between groups regardless of prospective/retrospective or VA/University. The prospective group had significantly more nutrition consultations and assessments (74.5% vs 40.1%, p<0.0001) compared to retrospective irrespective of VA/University comparisons. Both groups had similar number of days NPO, but the prospective group had fewer days of inadequate nutrition. 90-day readmissions were significantly lower in the prospective versus retrospective group (39% vs. 28%, p=0.04), associated with greater nutrition outpatient follow-up. In conclusion, nutritional consultation rates in cirrhotic inpatients can be significantly improved after educational intervention, which is associated with lower 90-day readmission rates. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301208	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301208	Cirrhosis
Journal of clinical laboratory analysis	Association of CD44 polymorphisms and susceptibility to HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma in the Chinese population.	For the CD44 rs13347 site, mutations in the T allele might be a risk factor for HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301090	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301090	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Obesity and Liver Disease: The New Era of Liver Transplantation.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a spectrum that ranges from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis, advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis. NAFLD is now the most common chronic liver disease in many developed countries. The latest Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network and Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (OPTN/SRTR) annual liver transplant report showed that hepatitis C (HCV) infection was no longer the most common indication for liver transplant; instead "other/unknown etiology" became the leading indication, and importantly, the highest number of transplants performed were for other/unknown liver diseases. The majority of cases categorized as other/unknown liver disease most likely represented NAFLD. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31301077	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301077	Cirrhosis
Journal of hepatology	Report on the AASLD/EASL joint workshop on clinical trial endpoints in NAFLD.	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a global public health concern. Its natural history, the development of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and fibrosis, is highly variable, prone to endogenous (e.g., genetics, microbiota) and exogenous (e.g., nutrition, alcohol, physical activity) disease modifiers, and can fluctuate over time. The complexity of its pathophysiology is reflected by the multitude of pharmacological targets in development. NASH clinical trials have provided valuable insight that is applicable to future trial design. Endpoints for NASH have evolved over the past decade and will continue to be refined. Currently accepted endpoints for conditional approval include resolution of NASH without worsening of fibrosis and/or improvement in fibrosis without worsening of NASH by standardized evaluation of paired liver histology. In pediatric NASH, practical obstacles, pubertal hormonal changes, and stringent safety requirements mandate adaptations in trial design. In adult patients with NASH-related cirrhosis, decrease in portal pressure as well as clinical events (e.g. decompensation, hepatocellular carcinoma, transplantation, death) are more prevalent and thereby are viable primary endpoints for clinical trials. Consideration of the natural fluctuation of disease, the clinical implication of the chosen primary endpoint, and factors that may affect placebo response will facilitate an accurate determination of efficacy of emerging therapeutics for NASH. Conclusion: The June 2018 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and European Association for the Study of the Liver joint workshop on NAFLD endpoints summarized important findings from ongoing and completed trials, defined the scientific evidence supporting distinct endpoints, and provided guidance for future trial design.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31300231	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300231	Cirrhosis
BMC palliative care	Palliative care for people with substance use disorder and multiple problems: a qualitative study on experiences of patients and proxies.	This study shows that talking about and anticipating on PC with this patient-group appears hard due to patients' closed and avoiding communication. Furthermore, some of patients' EOL-preferences and needs, and coping-strategies, seem to differ from the more generally-accepted ideas and practices. Therefore, educating HCPs in communicating with this patient-group, is needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299956	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299956	Cirrhosis
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	RRI as Diagnostic and Follow up Indicator in Cirrhosis of the Liver with Hepatorenal Syndrome and Refractory Ascites.	RRI is an affordable, non invasive and easily available tool which can be included as part of a routine Ultrasonographic evaluation in liver cirrhotics. The RRI can be used for assessing early onset of HRS and in follow up. Large volume paracentesis, Noradrenaline with Albumin infusion (5 gms/litre of ascitic fluid removed) is as effective as other costlier options for refractory ascitis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31299833	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299833	Cirrhosis
Redox biology	Protein tyrosine phosphatase 1b deficiency protects against hepatic fibrosis by modulating nadph oxidases.	Inflammation is typically associated with the development of fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The key role of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) in inflammatory responses has focused this study in understanding its implication in liver fibrosis. Here we show that hepatic PTP1B mRNA expression increased after bile duct ligation (BDL), while BDL-induced liver fibrosis was markedly reduced in mice lacking Ptpn1 (PTP1B	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31299613	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299613	Cirrhosis
Cytopathology : official journal of the British Society for Clinical Cytology	Cerebrospinal fluid cytology with abnormal cells: Diagnostic considerations.	A 70-year-old male with a history of diabetes, cirrhosis and prostatic adenocarcinoma, presented with dizziness and multiple falls over the past few days. A cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed increase protein and decrease glucose. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299128	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	ASKing no more: the emerging role of DUSP12 in the regulation of hepatic lipid metabolism.	Accumulation of fat in liver cells not due to alcohol abuse is the hallmark of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a common condition that may progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) characterized by liver inflammation.	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31299103	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299103	Cirrhosis
Ultrasound quarterly	Liver Stiffness Detected by Shear Wave Elastography Predicts Esophageal Varices in Cirrhotic Patients.	Ultrasound elastography has become a promising noninvasive approach for assessing liver fibrosis. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the diagnosis ability of liver stiffness detected by shear wave elastography (SWE) for predicting the presence of esophageal varices (EVs) in cirrhotic patients. Four hundred sixty-eight cirrhotic patients were enrolled consecutively. Liver stiffness and EVs were detected by SWE and endoscopy, respectively. The baseline characteristics were recorded, and areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROCs) were used to compare the diagnosis accuracy. Multivariate analysis was used to identify the risk factors for EVs in cirrhosis. The mean liver stiffness was 18.4 kPa with a range of 6.8 to 52.5 kPa. Two hundred seventy-one patients had no EVs (57.9%), 139 patients had F1 EVs (29.7%), and 58 patients had high-risk EVs (12.4%). The optimal cutoff values of SWE for predicting EVs and high-risk varices were 18.5 and 20.4 kPa, respectively. The AUROCs for predicting the incidence of EVs were 0.792 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.884-0.842), 0.814 (95% CI, 0.658-0.875), and 0.895 (95% CI, 0.813-0.918) for platelet, platelet count-to-spleen diameter ratio, and liver stiffness, respectively. For predicting the presence of high-risk varices, liver stiffness again had the highest AUROC. Multivariate analysis identified liver stiffness and platelet count-to-spleen diameter ratio as independent predictive factors for EVs in cirrhosis. Liver stiffness measured by SWE is an effective diagnostic tool for predicting EVs with greater accuracy, and SWE value is an independent factor for predicting high-risk EVs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299039	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299039	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Characterization of gut microbiota, bile acid metabolism, and cytokines in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC), a type of bile duct cancer, has a high mortality rate. Gut microbiota, bile acid metabolism, and cytokines have not been characterized in patients with ICC, and better noninvasive diagnostic approaches for ICC are essential to be established. Accordingly, in this study, we aimed to improve our understanding of changes in gut microbiota, bile acid metabolism, and cytokines in patients with ICC. We found that the α- and β-diversities of ICC were highest and that the abundances of four genera (Lactobacillus, Actinomyces, Peptostreptococcaceae, and Alloscardovia) were increased in patients with ICC compared with those in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma or liver cirrhosis and in normal individuals. The glycoursodeoxycholic acid and tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA) plasma-stool ratios (PSRs) were obviously increased in patients with ICC. Furthermore, the genera Lactobacillus and Alloscardovia positively correlated with TUDCA-PSR were combined to discriminate ICC from the other three diseases. Vascular invasion (VI) frequently led to a poor prognosis in patients with ICC. Compared with patients with ICC without VI, patients with VI had a greater abundance of the family Ruminococcaceae, increased levels of plasma interleukin (IL)-4 and six conjugated bile acids, and decreased levels of plasma IL-6 and chenodeoxycholic acid. A positive correlation between plasma taurocholic acid and IL-4 was observed in patients with ICC. Plasma TUDCA was negatively correlated with the abundance of the genus Pseudoramibacter and the survival time of patients with ICC, but had no effect on tumor size, as determined in two murine tumor models. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we identified new biomarkers, including gut microbiota, bile acids, and inflammatory cytokines, for diagnosis of ICC and prediction of VI in patients with ICC. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298745	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298745	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Assessing surgical risk in idiopathic portal hypertension: some answers, an extrapolation, and more questions.	Preoperative risk assessment of patients with chronic liver disease is an important part of hepatology practice. Patients with cirrhosis undergoing major surgery are at significantly increased risk of postoperative morbidity and mortality. It is the hepatologist's responsibility to estimate such risk and advise the surgical team and the patient on how to proceed. Continued advances in surgical technologies and medical care are leading to increasing numbers of referrals for preoperative evaluation. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31298742	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298742	Cirrhosis
Pediatric transplantation	Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell and liver transplantation in a young girl with dedicator of cytokinesis 8 protein deficiency.	DOCK8 deficiency is a rare inherited combined immunodeficiency, caused by mutations in the DOCK8 gene. We describe a case with DOCK8 deficiency associated with severe CLD in whom orthotopic LT was performed successfully after allogeneic HSCT. A 5 year-old girl with DOCK8 deficiency presented with mild direct hyperbilirubinemia and abnormal GGT level and without a previous history of jaundice. She had severe growth retardation, hepatosplenomegaly and generalized eczema. Progressive worsening of CLD was observed within 4 months. Investigations for etiology of liver disease were negative. Liver biopsy showed bridging necrosis, cholestasis and, cirrhosis. Recurrent immune hemolytic crisis and several viral infections developed in follow-up. She underwent whole cadaveric LT for end-stage liver disease (ESLD) 1 year after allogenic HSCT from a full matched related donor. The postoperative course was uneventful. The patient is alive with normal liver function and moderate skin graft versus host disease for 36 months after LT. In conclusion DOCK8 deficiency can be associated with severe CLD. Successful LT following HSCT is possible in patients with ESLD in DOCK8 deficiency. The timing of LT is challenging in patients requiring both HSCT and LT since conditioning regimens for HSCT can be highly hepatotoxic and the patients with suboptimal liver function can become decompensated during HSCT.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Denmark	31297914	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297914	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	A pilot experience of endoscopic submucosal dissection of Barrett's dysplasia despite esophageal varices and decompensated cirrhosis.	Portal hypertension (PH) is the initial and major consequence of cirrhosis. With optimal medical management median survival exceeds 12 years in patients with compensated cirrhosis and 1.8 years in patients with decompensation.(1) Therefore, clinical management of dysplasia and early malignancies in the esophagus and stomach in cirrhotic patients with PH and esophagogastric (EG) varices is relevant as the neoplasia-and not the cirrhosis-is often the life-limiting condition. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297840	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297840	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Defining the minimum acceptable diagnostic accuracy of non-invasive fibrosis testing in cirrhosis: a decision analytic modelling study.	No studies explore the clinical consequences of using non-invasive tests (NITs) compared to liver biopsy (LB) in diagnosing cirrhosis. Our aim was to combine two decision analytic models to determine the minimum diagnostic accuracy criteria for NITs to diagnose cirrhosis with equivalence to LB in terms of mortality. We further evaluated selected existing NITs used alone and sequentially. A decision tree was constructed with associated 2-year mortality incorporating a LB or NIT strategy to diagnose cirrhosis in a hypothetical cohort of 1000 asymptomatic patients. Cirrhosis prevalence was modelled at 5%, 20% and 50%. Decision curve analyses were performed, expressing the net benefit of tests over a range of threshold probabilities (P	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297832	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297832	Cirrhosis
Digestive diseases and sciences	A Cholecystokinin Receptor Antagonist Halts Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis and Prevents Hepatocellular Carcinoma.	These results support the novel role of CCK receptors in the pathogenesis of NASH and HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297627	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297627	Cirrhosis
BMJ case reports	An unusual cause of gastrointestinal bleed in patients with liver cirrhosis.	Acute upper gastrointestinal (UGI) bleeding in cirrhosis has been classically linked to variceal rupture, although peptic ulcer and portal hypertensive gastropathy-related bleed are not uncommon. Gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) is the most common mesenchymal tumour and may also present as UGI bleed; however, there are no reports of GIST presenting as UGI bleed in patients with cirrhosis. Here, we report three cases of GIST who had presented with UGI bleed and were successfully managed with surgical excision and are tolerating imatinib without recurrence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296619	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296619	Cirrhosis
Digestive and liver disease : official journal of the Italian Society of Gastroenterology and the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver	Hepatotoxicity of immune check point inhibitors: Approach and management.	Therapeutic reversal of immune tolerance following immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICPI) administration, has proven effective in prolonging survival of patients with a variety of solid and liquid tumors, often however at the expenses of discrete toxicities known as immune-related adverse events (AEs). Such reactions result from activation of the immune system and often present with generalized symptoms including fatigue or fever and, in some patients, may cause organ-specific damage. Skin, gut, endocrine, lung and musculoskeletal are the most frequent targets of ICPI toxicity whereas, cardiovascular, hematologic, renal, neurologic and ophthalmologic AEs occur much less frequently. While the majority of AEs are mild to moderate, serious, occasionally life-threatening reactions have been reported, including severe colitis, pneumonitis, encephalitis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, myocarditis, and diabetic ketoacidosis, with a death toll of 2%. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is becoming an attractive area for immunotherapy. Owing to the fact that the association of HCC with cirrhosis may jeopardize tolerability of ICPI therapy, attention has been paid to identifying, preventing, and treating the AEs associated with ICPI, with a focus on liver safety. Though in most studies AEs resolved with interruption of treatment and short course of steroids, identification of predictive biomarkers of response might help sparing patients from potentially life-threatening toxicity in the absence of clinical benefit.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31296449	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296449	Cirrhosis
BMC gastroenterology	Cost-comparison analysis of FIB-4, ELF and fibroscan in community pathways for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	Our analyses suggest that the use of NILT in primary care can increases early detection of advanced liver fibrosis and reduce unnecessary referral of patients with mild disease and is cost efficient. Adopting a two-tier approach improves resource utilization.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296161	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296161	Cirrhosis
Tropical doctor	Insulin resistance is not a risk factor for oesophageal varices development in hepatitis C.	Chronic hepatitis C (HCV) patients commonly have insulin resistance which is a risk factor for disease progression. Oesophageal varices may bleed with high mortality. We aimed to assess the relationship between insulin resistance and oesophageal varices. HCV-related compensated liver cirrhosis patients (n = 146) underwent gastroscopy and homeostasis model assessment (HOMA)-IR, HOMA-β and HOMA-S calculations. Their average age was 54.98 years; most (84.9%) patients were men and non-diabetic (60.3%). Patients with oesophageal varices had higher median Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scores and comparable Child-Pugh class. Patients with and without oesophageal varices had comparable (	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296148	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296148	Cirrhosis
Internal medicine journal	Palliative care in cirrhosis with decompensation.	Cirrhosis with decompensation has a poor prognosis, high symptom burden and causes carer stress. This pilot research in one tertiary hospital found that patients with cirrhosis with decompensation were infrequently referred to specialist palliative care. Despite this, they had a heavy symptom burden, high predicted mortality, frequent unplanned readmissions, long admissions and intensive care unit admissions. Few had adequate advance care planning.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31295784	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295784	Cirrhosis
Microbes and infection	The remarkable history of the hepatitis C virus.	The infection with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) is an example of the translational research success. The reciprocal interactions between clinicians and scientists have allowed in 30 years the initiation of empirical treatments by interferon, the discovery of the virus, the development of serological and virological tools for diagnosis but also for prognosis (the non-invasive biochemical or morphological fibrosis tests, the predictors of the specific immune response including genetic IL28B polymorphisms). Finally, well-tolerated and effective treatments with oral antivirals inhibiting HCV non-structural viral proteins involved in viral replication have been marketed this last decade, allowing the cure of all infected subjects. HCV chronic infection, which is a public health issue, is a hepatic disease which may lead to a cirrhosis and an hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) but also a systemic disease with extra-hepatic manifestations either associated with a cryoglobulinemic vasculitis or chronic inflammation. The HCV infection is the only chronic viral infection which may be cured: the so-called sustained virologic response, defined by undetectable HCV RNA 12 weeks after the end of the treatment, significantly reduces the risk of morbidity and mortality associated with hepatic and extra-hepatic manifestations which are mainly reversible. The history of HCV ends with the pangenotypic efficacy of the multiple combinations, easy to use for 8 to 12 weeks with one to three pills per day and little problems of tolerance. This explains the short 30 years from the virus discovery to the viral hepatitis elimination policy proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2016.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31295571	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295571	Cirrhosis
Journal of hepatology	FxR-modulates the gut-vascular barrier by regulating the entry sites for bacterial translocation in experimental cirrhosis.	For intestinal bacteria to enter the systemic circulation crossing of mucus and epithelial layer as well as gut-vascular-barrier (GVB) is necessary. Liver cirrhosis disrupts all three of these barriers giving bacteria access to the portal-venous circulation and thus, gut-liver-axis. Diminished luminal bile acid availability featuring cirrhosis and associated reduced signaling known to involve the farnesoid-x-receptor (FXR) seems at least partly to mediate these changes since FXR-agonists reduce bacterial translocation via the portal-venous route to the liver in cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31295531	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31295531	Cirrhosis
Journal of viral hepatitis	Prevalence, mortality and healthcare utilization among Medicare beneficiaries with Hepatitis C in Hemodialysis units.	Hepatitis C (HCV) is more common among patients with end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis compared to the general population. Thus we aimed to assess trends in prevalence, health resource utilization, and mortality amongst Medicare beneficiaries with HCV on hemodialysis. This is a retrospective study of outpatient and inpatient claims for Medicare beneficiaries receiving hemodialysis (2005-2016). A total of 291,663 subjects on hemodialysis were included (67.3±15.2 years, 55% male, 55% white, 49% age-based eligibility). The prevalence of HCV in subjects on hemodialysis was stable and was significantly higher (mean 4.2% in 2005-2016, p=0.50 for the trend) than in subjects not on hemodialysis (<1%). In multivariate analysis, liver cirrhosis (odds ratio=3.4 (95% CI=3.3-3.6)) was an independent predictor of 1-year mortality among hemodialysis patients. Mean total inpatient payments in dialysis patients with HCV remained stable during 2005 ($73,803) through 2016 ($72,133) (trend p=0.54) while mean total outpatient payment decreased from 2005 ($53,497) to 2016 ($35,439; trend p=0.0013). In multivariate analysis, after adjustment for age, gender, race, and location, both HCV and cirrhosis remained significant contributors to greater spending [HCV: inpatient +22.1%(+19.2%-25%), HCV: outpatient +18.4%(+14.6%-22.2%), cirrhosis: inpatient +59.7%(+56.9%-62.6%), cirrhosis: outpatient +9.4%(+6.2%-12.6%)]. In conclusion, HCV-infected Medicare patients receiving hemodialysis incur greater resource utilization; mortality is higher in patients with cirrhosis only. Although HCV prevalence in Medicare hemodialysis recipients is higher than in patients without hemodialysis, these rates are lower than reported, suggesting potential under-screening for HCV in this high-risk population. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31294521	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294521	Cirrhosis
Journal of the Canadian Association of Gastroenterology	The Impact of Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Canada 2018: Extra-intestinal Diseases in IBD.	Patients with IBD are often burdened with extra-intestinal disease. Future research should determine the collective frequency and added costs of living with extra-intestinal disease.Immune-mediated inflammatory diseases are commonly codiagnosed with IBD. Future research should focus on the pathogenesis connecting coexisting IMIDs with IBD.Care pathways that support the investigation and mitigation of extra-intestinal disease are needed. For example, when and how ambulatory patients with IBD should receive prophylaxis against venous thromboembolic disease is unknown.With an aging IBD population, the burden of extra-intestinal disease should be studied in the context of comorbidities of advancing age.Increasing mental health screening and access to mental health care should be a goal of IBD management.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31294387	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294387	Cirrhosis
Research and practice in thrombosis and haemostasis	Successful management of refractory bleeding in liver failure with tranexamic acid: Case report and literature review.	A 50-year-old woman with advanced cirrhosis presented with spontaneous subdural hematoma. She had a worsening clinical course following craniotomy despite administration of multiple blood products. With elevation in D-dimer, persistently low fibrinogen and poor response to factor/fibrinogen replacement therapies, we had a suspicion for uncontrolled fibrinolysis. A literature review was conducted on treatment of hyperfibrinolysis in cirrhosis, finding 4 reports in which antifibrinolytics were used to control bleeding with different outcomes. The dose of tranexamic acid used in our patient was employed from previous experience in trauma patients. We transitioned from intravenous to oral administration based on expected pharmacokinetics. Our patient had a successful outcome with resolution of bleeding.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31294331	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31294331	Cirrhosis
Journal of clinical and translational hepatology	A Mimic of Hepatic Encephalopathy: Two Cases of Cryptococcal Meningitis in North America.	In the non-human immunodeficiency virus infected population, cryptococcosis occurs primarily in people who are functionally immunosuppressed, including patients who have undergone solid organ transplantation requiring immunosuppressive medications, are on corticosteroids, or have renal failure or cirrhosis. Cryptococcal meningitis poses a particular challenge in the setting of cirrhosis because its clinical presentation can mimic hepatic encephalopathy. Here, we describe two patients with decompensated cirrhosis, both with a known history of hepatic encephalopathy who had lumbar punctures and were found to have cryptococcal meningitis. The first patient had a subacute fluctuating change in mental status, while the second patient had progressive subacute headaches, gait disturbance, and hearing loss. Both patients were treated with amphotericin B and flucytosine induction, but only the second survived to maintenance therapy. These cases demonstrate the importance of having a high index of suspicion for cryptococcal meningitis in cirrhosis and having a low threshold for performing a lumbar puncture when altered mental status or other neurologic complaints are not fully explained by hepatic encephalopathy. We also provide a brief review of the pathobiology of cryptococcal infection in cirrhosis and highlight the challenges in therapy.	2019	eng	Case Reports	China	31293920	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293920	Cirrhosis
Journal of clinical and translational hepatology	Update on Management of Portal Vein Thrombosis and the Role of Novel Anticoagulants.	The clinical management of portal vein thrombosis (PVT) remains ambiguous due to its heterogeneous presentations and its associations with liver disease, malignancy, and hypercoagulable states. The natural history and clinical outcome of PVT are highly variable, dependent upon size, extent and degree of the thrombotic occlusion, as well as the physiological impact of patient comorbidities. While existing clinical guidelines consistently recommend low molecular weight heparin or vitamin K antagonist anticoagulation in cirrhotic patients with symptomatic acute PVT, management of asymptomatic and chronic PVT may need to be determined on a case-by-case basis, factoring in the state of underlying liver disease. In general, patients with PVT and underlying malignancy should be anticoagulated to alleviate symptoms and prevent recurrences that could disrupt the cancer management. However, existing clinical data does not support routine anticoagulation of cirrhotic patients with asymptomatic PVT in the absence of underlying cancer. While low molecular weight heparin and vitamin K antagonist remain the most commonly used agents in PVT, an emerging body of clinical evidence now suggests that direct-acting oral anticoagulants may be used safely and effectively in PVT. As such, direct-acting oral anticoagulants may offer a more convenient anticoagulation alternative for PVT management in future practice.	2019	eng	Review	China	31293916	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293916	Cirrhosis
Journal of clinical and translational hepatology	Spectrum, Manifestations and Outcomes of Dengue Infection in Individuals with and without Liver Disease.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31293909	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293909	Cirrhosis
World journal of hepatology	Efficacy of long-term rifaximin treatment for hepatic encephalopathy in the Japanese.	Rifaximin therapy improves overt HE. The long-term use of rifaximin in the Japanese is effective and safe.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31293721	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293721	Cirrhosis
World journal of hepatology	Proton pump inhibitors increase the severity of hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhotic patients.	Chronic PPI use in cirrhotic patients is associated with significantly higher average West Haven Criteria for HE compared to patients that do not use PPIs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31293720	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293720	Cirrhosis
World journal of hepatology	Dietary approach and gut microbiota modulation for chronic hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhosis.	Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a common and serious neuropsychiatric complication of cirrhosis, acute liver failure, and porto-systemic shunting. HE largely contributes to the morbidity of patients with liver disease, severely affecting the quality of life of both patients and their relatives and being associated with poor prognosis. Its presentation is largely variable, manifesting with a broad spectrum of cognitive abnormalities ranging from subtle cognitive impairment to coma. The pathogenesis of HE is complex and has historically been linked with hyperammonemia. However, in the last years, it has become evident that the interplay of multiple actors, such as intestinal dysbiosis, gut hyperpermeability, and neuroinflammation, is of crucial importance in its genesis. Therefore, HE can be considered a result of a dysregulated gut-liver-brain axis function, where cognitive impairment can be reversed or prevented by the beneficial effects induced by "gut-centric" therapies, such as non-absorbable disaccharides, non-absorbable antibiotics, probiotics, prebiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation. In this context dietary modifications, by modulating the intestinal milieu, can also provide significant benefit to cirrhotic patients with HE. This review will provide a comprehensive insight into the mechanisms responsible for gut-liver-brain axis dysregulation leading to HE in cirrhosis. Furthermore, it will explore the currently available therapies and the most promising future treatments for the management of patients with HE, with a special focus on the dietary approach.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31293718	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293718	Cirrhosis
World journal of gastroenterology	Biomarkers and subtypes of deranged lipid metabolism in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a heterogeneous and complex disease that is imprecisely diagnosed by liver biopsy. NAFLD covers a spectrum that ranges from simple steatosis, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with varying degrees of fibrosis, to cirrhosis, which is a major risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma. Lifestyle and eating habit changes during the last century have made NAFLD the most common liver disease linked to obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia, with a global prevalence of 25%. NAFLD arises when the uptake of fatty acids (FA) and triglycerides (TG) from circulation and de novo lipogenesis saturate the rate of FA β-oxidation and very-low density lipoprotein (VLDL)-TG export. Deranged lipid metabolism is also associated with NAFLD progression from steatosis to NASH, and therefore, alterations in liver and serum lipidomic signatures are good indicators of the disease's development and progression. This review focuses on the importance of the classification of NAFLD patients into different subtypes, corresponding to the main alteration(s) in the major pathways that regulate FA homeostasis leading, in each case, to the initiation and progression of NASH. This concept also supports the targeted intervention as a key approach to maximize therapeutic efficacy and opens the door to the development of precise NASH treatments.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31293337	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293337	Cirrhosis
Epidemiologia e prevenzione	[The epidemiological surveillance in the programme of public health intervention in the national priority contaminated sites of Sicily Region (Southern Italy): update of mortality, hospitalization, and cancer incidence].	data from the new surveillance system help to define the health profile in the NPCSs of Sicily. Even using the local level of comparison, that was added to the traditional approach in geographic studies for the NPCSs available to date, the particular impact of some chronic diseases in these populations has been confirmed also in recent years.	2019	ita	Journal Article	Italy	31293132	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293132	Cirrhosis
Clinical journal of gastroenterology	A case of suspected portal-pulmonary hypertension due to hepatitis C virus infection.	A 44-year-old woman with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection was referred by a primary care doctor and admitted to our hospital because of worsening dyspnea on exertion and right atrial and ventricular enlargement. The patient was diagnosed with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) associated with portal hypertension induced by chronic HCV infection. This diagnosis was based on a cardiological examination and findings related to liver cirrhosis with portal hypertension. After the prescription of anti-PAH medicine and a slight improvement in her respiratory symptoms, 12-week direct-acting antiviral (DAA) treatment for HCV was started. Serum HCV RNA levels rapidly decreased and HCV elimination was confirmed 24 weeks after completing DAA treatment. Before confirmation of a sustained virological response at 24 weeks after completing DAA treatment, a remarkable improvement in her cardiac markers was found in a right heart catheter study. This study was performed 6 weeks after the end of DAA administration. Therefore, we considered that HCV infection was involved in the development of PAH and that elimination of HCV by interferon-free treatment was important for this patient.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31292842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292842	Cirrhosis
Digestive diseases and sciences	Bedside Measures of Frailty and Cognitive Function Correlate with Sarcopenia in Patients with Cirrhosis.	Bedside measures of physical function, muscle bulk, and cognitive performance are correlated with CT-based muscle measures. Bedside measures of frailty may provide an advantage over sarcopenia for outcome assessment that should be confirmed prospectively.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31292783	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292783	Cirrhosis
Internal medicine (Tokyo, Japan)	Cell-free and Concentrated Ascites Reinfusion Therapy for Refractory Ascites in Cirrhosis in Post-marketing Surveillance and the Role of Tolvaptan.	Objective Ascites becomes refractory to diuretics in cirrhotic patients, who then require repeated large-volume paracentesis or cell-free and concentrated ascites reinfusion therapy (CART). The objective of this study was to confirm the safety and efficacy of CART, evaluate the actual situations with respect to the prescription of diuretics and determine the role of diuretics after the introduction of CART. Patients and Methods We recruited 34 cirrhotic patients who received CART with concomitant diuretics using furosemide (76.2%), spironolactone (48.5%), thiazide (4.0%) and tolvaptan (53.5%) from a post-marketing surveillance of CART. Results CART improved the tested clinical indices, i.e. body weight, abdominal circumference, performance status, dietary intake, total protein and albumin. The intervals of CART sessions were significantly prolonged in patients who received tolvaptan (mean, 22.5 days) compared to those not receiving tolvaptan (mean, 10.8 days) (p<0.001). The drop-out rate was significantly decreased in patients receiving tolvaptan compared to those not receiving tolvaptan when drop-out was defined as paracentesis (p<0.05). Conclusion We confirmed that CART is an effective treatment for refractory ascites occurring in cirrhotic patients. The administration of tolvaptan in combination with CART leads to a significantly reduced rate of ascites accumulation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31292400	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292400	Cirrhosis
Nihon Shokakibyo Gakkai zasshi = The Japanese journal of gastro-enterology	[Cirrhotic cardiomyopathy-associated acute cardiac failure in a patient with decompensated alcoholic cirrhosis with massive hepatic hydrothorax].	Cirrhotic cardiomyopathy (CCM) is a chronic cardiac dysfunction in patients with cirrhosis and is characterized by altered diastolic relaxation, blunted contractile response to stress, and electrophysiological abnormalities;however, causes of CCM are unknown. Moreover, reduced cardiac afterload due to cirrhosis-related vasodilatation often masks cardiac insufficiency, whereas rapid hemodynamic overload reveals the presence of cirrhotic cardiomyopathy. Herein, we present the case of previously unrecognized cirrhotic cardiomyopathy that became overt with the development of severe acute cardiac failure. The rapidly worsening hepatic hydrothorax increased cardiac preload and intrathoracic pressure, which impaired cardiac filling. Furthermore, cardiac contractile function might have been worsened by hypoxia due to passive atelectasis and concomitant anemia.	2019	jpn	Journal Article	Japan	31292323	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292323	Cirrhosis
BMJ open	Validation of an algorithm using inpatient electronic health records to determine the presence and severity of cirrhosis in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma in England: an observational study.	Our optimised algorithm, based on inpatient electronic health records, reliably identifies and stages cirrhosis in patients with HCC. This highlights the potential of routine health data in population studies to stratify patients with HCC according to liver disease severity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31292182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31292182	Cirrhosis
PloS one	Single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with elevated alanine aminotransferase in patients receiving asunaprevir plus daclatasvir combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C.	CYP3A4 rs4646437 was found to be significantly and independently associated with ALT elevation in Japanese patients receiving ASV plus DCV therapy. Notably, none of the patients with rs4646437 genotype non-CC (allele T) had grade ≥2 ALT elevation. SNP genotyping prior to treatment might be useful for carefully monitoring patients to complete treatment safely.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291311	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291311	Cirrhosis
PloS one	CD147 mediates intrahepatic leukocyte aggregation and determines the extent of liver injury.	CD147 mediates leukocyte aggregation which is associated with the development of liver injury. This is not a secondary effect, but a cause of injury as aggregate formation proceeds other markers of injury. Leukocyte aggregation has been previously described in inflammation dating back over many decades. Here we demonstrate that leukocyte aggregates determine the extent of liver injury.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291257	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291257	Cirrhosis
PloS one	Assay validation and clinical performance of chronic inflammatory and chemokine biomarkers of NASH fibrosis.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a chronic liver disease that can lead to cirrhosis, liver transplant, and even hepatocellular carcinoma. While liver biopsy remains the reference standard for disease diagnosis, analytical and clinical development of non-invasive soluble biomarkers of NASH are of great importance to advance the field. To this end, we performed analytical and clinical validation on a series of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines implicated hepatic inflammation; IL-6, CRP, TNFα, MCP-1, MIP-1β, eotaxin, VCAM-1. Biomarker assays were validated for accuracy and precision. Clinical performance was evaluated in a random sample of 52 patients with biopsy-proven NAFLD/NASH. Patients were categorized into three groups according to their fibrosis stage; advanced (F3-F4), mild (F1-2) and no (F0) fibrosis. Serum IL-6 was increased in patients with advanced fibrosis (2.71 pg/mL; 1.26 pg/mL; 1.39 pg/mL p<0.01) compared to patients with mild or no fibrosis respectively. While, there was no significant difference noted in CRP, TNFα, MCP-1, MIP-1β, eotaxin among the three groups, VCAM-1 levels were increased by 55% (p<0.01) and 40% (p<0.05) in the advanced cohort compared to the mild and no fibrosis groups respectively. VCAM-1 also displayed good clinical performance as a biomarker of advanced fibrosis with an area under the receiver operating curve of 0.87. The VCAM-1 assay demonstrated robust accuracy and precision, and VCAM-1 outperformed IL-6, CRP, TNFα, and the chemokines MCP-1, MIP-1β, and eotaxin as a biomarker of advanced fibrosis in NASH. Addition of biomarkers such as IL-6 and VCAM-1 to panels may yield increased sensitivity and specificity for staging of NASH.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31291245	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31291245	Cirrhosis
The Turkish journal of gastroenterology : the official journal of Turkish Society of Gastroenterology	The relationship between fibrosis and nodule structure and esophageal varices.	Although thrombocytopenia and splenomegaly may predict the presence of large esophageal varices, cirrhosis histopathology is the main factor in the presence of varices.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31290750	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290750	Cirrhosis
The Turkish journal of gastroenterology : the official journal of Turkish Society of Gastroenterology	Assessment of HLADP gene rs3128917 and rs9380343 polymorphisms in chronic HBV infection.	The current study is the first report demonstrating the HLA rs9380343 polymorphism as a genetic risk factor for chronicity of HBV infection. Further independent studies are required to confirm the current findings using a larger sample size in different populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31290749	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290749	Cirrhosis
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Predictors of Clostridioidesdifficile Infection among Asymptomatic Colonized Patients: A Retrospective Cohort Study.	This study identifies several factors that are associated with CDI among colonized patients. Whether modifying these variables could decrease the risk of CDI should be investigated.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290544	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290544	Cirrhosis
Hepatology international	Bacteroides in colonic mucosa-associated microbiota affects the development of minimal hepatic encephalopathy in patients with cirrhosis.	The decrease in microbial diversity and genus Bacteroides in MAM is a risk factor for MHE in patients with liver cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31290070	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290070	Cirrhosis
Current gastroenterology reports	Nutrition in Cirrhosis.	Several meta-analyses and international society guidelines recommend malnutrition screening and nutrition interventions to improve outcomes in all patients with chronic liver disease given their high risk of malnutrition which is often under recognized. Malnutrition is common in individuals with chronic liver disease and has a significant impact on patient outcomes. Thus, it is critical that validated malnutrition screening tools are used routinely in this patient population in order to identify high-risk patients and implement nutrition and exercise interventions early.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31289936	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289936	Cirrhosis
Open forum infectious diseases	Retrospective Study Demonstrating High Rates of Sustained Virologic Response After Treatment With Direct-Acting Antivirals Among American Indian/Alaskan Natives.	DAA therapies are highly efficacious in HCV-infected AI/ANs. SVR12 rates remained high among patients with active substance use disorder. More steps must be taken to increase access to treatment for this underserved, vulnerable population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31289725	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289725	Cirrhosis
Journal of Cancer	Prophylactic Endoscopic Therapy for Variceal Bleeding in Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31289578	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289578	Cirrhosis
Oncology letters	Serum microRNA-125a-5p as a potential biomarker of HCV-associated hepatocellular carcinoma.	During diagnosis of early stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), single or small lesions are difficult to identify using screening ultrasonography, and conventional tumor markers are frequently negative. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that suppress the translation of target mRNAs and exert significance as biomarkers. The aim of the present study was to use samples of patients with HCC and those with other liver diseases caused by hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection to investigate the expression profile of serum miRNAs, and identify a miRNA that can serve as a HCC biomarker. Initially, changes in 2,555 miRNAs between pre- and post-curative treatment serum from 12 patients with early stage HCC were examined using microarray analysis. The serum levels of miR-125a-5p in 40 individuals with HCV-associated chronic hepatitis (CH), liver cirrhosis (LC) or HCC were measured using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and 5 miRNAs, including miR-125a-5p, miR-423-5p, miR-1247, miR-1304 and miR-3648, were identified to be downregulated following curative treatment in patients with HCC. Among these, miR-125a-5p was identified to be similarly decreased following treatment in all patients. Additionally, the expression levels of miR-125a-5p were significantly upregulated in patients with HCC in the early and advanced stages of disease, compared with patients with CH or LC (P<0.05). Serum miR-125a-5p fluctuates depending on the presence of HCC, and may serve as a noninvasive biomarker to aid in diagnosing early carcinogenesis in HCV-associated chronic liver diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31289566	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31289566	Cirrhosis
BMC pediatrics	A case of dystonia with polycythemia and hypermanganesemia caused by SLC30A10 mutation: a treatable inborn error of manganese metabolism.	The syndrome of hepatic cirrhosis, dystonia, polycythemia, and hypermanganesemia caused by SLC30A10 mutation is a treatable inherited metal deposition syndrome. The patient may only have pure neurological without hepatic manifestations. Although this is a rare and potentially fatal inborn error of metabolism, early diagnosis and continuous chelation therapy might improve the symptoms and prevent disease progression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288771	Cirrhosis
Zeitschrift fur Gastroenterologie	[Microbiome & NASH - partners in crime driving progression of fatty liver disease].	Einhergehend mit der steigenden Prävalenz von Übergewicht, metabolischem Syndrom und Typ-2-Diabetes nehmen nicht-alkoholische Fettlebererkrankungen (NAFLD) stark zu und stellen eine große Herausforderung in der Gastroenterologie dar. Viele Studien konnten nachweisen, dass das Mikrobiom in einem engen Zusammenhang mit der Progression von ernährungsbedingten Krankheitsbildern, insbesondere auch von Fettlebererkrankungen, steht. Veränderungen in der Quantität und Qualität der Darmflora, allgemein als Dysbiose bezeichnet, bedingen veränderte Metabolisierung von Nahrungsmitteln, erhöhte Permeabilität der Darmbarriere („leaky gut“) und konsekutiv Entzündungsprozesse in der Leber. Dies begünstigt sowohl das Fortschreiten von Adipositas und metabolischen Störungen als auch von NAFLD zur nicht-alkoholischen Steatohepatitis (NASH), hepatischen Fibrose, Leberzirrhose und hepatozellulärem Karzinom (HCC). Wichtige molekulare Mechanismen beinhalten mikrobielle Stoffwechselprodukte, mikrobielle und endogene Signalstoffe (sogenannte PAMPs/DAMPs) sowie Gallensäuren. Essenzielle zelluläre Mechanismen umfassen immunologische Zellen in Darm und Leber, insbesondere Makrophagen und Kupffer-Zellen, sowie Darmepithelzellen und Hepatozyten als zentrale Regulatoren des Stoffwechsels. In dieser Übersicht wollen wir anhand aktueller wissenschaftlicher Arbeiten und klinischer Studien kurz auf die relevanten Spezies des humanen Mikrobioms eingehen, die mikrobielle Analytik erläutern, die wichtigsten molekularen Zusammenhänge zwischen Mikrobiom und NAFLD/NASH erklären und schlussendlich Möglichkeiten der Mikrobiom-modulierenden Therapie zur Behandlung von Fettlebererkrankungen darlegen.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31288283	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288283	Cirrhosis
Frontline gastroenterology	Large-duct cholangiopathies: aetiology, diagnosis and treatment.	Cholangiopathies describe a group of conditions affecting the intrahepatic and extrahepatic biliary tree. Impairment to bile flow and chronic cholestasis cause biliary inflammation, which leads to more permanent damage such as destruction of the small bile ducts (ductopaenia) and biliary cirrhosis. Most cholangiopathies are progressive and cause end-stage liver disease unless the physical obstruction to biliary flow can be reversed. This review considers large-duct cholangiopathies, such as primary sclerosing cholangitis, ischaemic cholangiopathy, portal biliopathy, recurrent pyogenic cholangitis and Caroli disease.	2019	eng	Review	England	31288256	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288256	Cirrhosis
Frontline gastroenterology	Facilitating treatment of HCV in primary care in regional Australia: closing the access gap.	Community-based TE assessment facilitates access to HCV treatment in primary care with excellent SVR rates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31288252	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288252	Cirrhosis
Antiviral research	Non-invasive biomarkers for chronic hepatitis B virus infection management.	Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains a major health burden with over 250 million cases worldwide. This complex infection can lead to chronic hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Complete recovery is seldom achieved due to the persistence in infected hepatocytes of covalently closed circular (ccc)DNA, which is not targeted by current antiviral therapies. Routine circulating biomarkers used for clinical monitoring of patients do not accurately reflect the cccDNA pool and transcriptional activity. New biomarkers, such as serum HB core-related Ag and circulating HBV RNAs, are under development. In this review, we discuss surrogate non-invasive biomarkers for evaluating intrahepatic cccDNA abundance and transcriptional activity. We also present their relevance for improving the classification of patients with regards to their natural history and for evaluating novel compounds to assess target engagement and to define new virological endpoints.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31288041	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31288041	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Report on the AASLD/EASL Joint Workshop on Clinical Trial Endpoints in NAFLD.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a global public health concern. Its natural history, the development of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and fibrosis, is highly variable, prone to endogenous (e.g., genetics, microbiota) and exogenous (e.g., nutrition, alcohol, physical activity) disease modifiers, and can fluctuate over time. The complexity of its pathophysiology is reflected by the multitude of pharmacological targets in development. NASH clinical trials have provided valuable insight that is applicable to future trial design. Endpoints for NASH have evolved over the past decade and will continue to be refined. Currently accepted endpoints for conditional approval include resolution of NASH without worsening of fibrosis and/or improvement in fibrosis without worsening of NASH by standardized evaluation of paired liver histology. In pediatric NASH, practical obstacles, pubertal hormonal changes, and stringent safety requirements mandate adaptations in trial design. In adult patients with NASH-related cirrhosis, clinical events (e.g. decompensation, hepatocellular carcinoma, transplantation, death) are more prevalent and thereby are viable primary endpoints. Consideration of the natural fluctuation of disease, the clinical implication of the chosen primary endpoint, and factors that may affect placebo response will facilitate an accurate determination of efficacy of emerging therapeutics for NASH. Conclusion: The June 2018 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and European Association for the Study of the Liver joint workshop on NAFLD endpoints summarized important findings from ongoing and completed trials, defined the scientific evidence supporting distinct endpoints, and provided guidance for future trial design.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287572	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287572	Cirrhosis
Radiology	Contrast-enhanced US with Perfluorobutane for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Surveillance: A Multicenter Diagnostic Trial (SCAN).	Background US has served as a standard surveillance tool for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, the detection rate and false referral rate with this modality are suboptimal. Purpose To evaluate the added value of perfluorobutane-enhanced US when combined with conventional B-mode US as an HCC surveillance tool in participants with liver cirrhosis. Materials and Methods This prospective multi-institution diagnostic trial ( 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287387	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287387	Cirrhosis
Orphanet journal of rare diseases	Genotypic and phenotypic spectra of hemojuvelin mutations in primary hemochromatosis patients: a systematic review.	Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a genetic disorder that causes excess absorption of iron and can lead to a variety of complications including liver cirrhosis, arthritis, abnormal skin pigmentation, cardiomyopathy, hypogonadism, and diabetes. Hemojuvelin (HJV) is the causative gene of a rare subtype of HH worldwide. This study aims to systematically review the genotypic and phenotypic spectra of HJV-HH in multiple ethnicities, and to explore the genotype-phenotype correlations. A comprehensive search of PubMed database was conducted. Data were extracted from 57 peer-reviewed original articles including 132 cases with HJV-HH of multiple ethnicities, involving 117 biallelic cases and 15 heterozygotes. Among the biallelic cases, male and female probands of Caucasian ancestry were equally affected, whereas males were more often affected among East Asians (P=1.72×10	2019	eng	Review	England	31286966	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286966	Cirrhosis
BMC public health	Self-motivated medical care-seeking behaviors and disease progression in a community-based cohort of chronic hepatitis B virus-infected patients in China.	The rates of medical care-seeking and antiviral treatment were low among community-based chronic HBV-infected persons, thus we recommend improving the insurance policies for HBV-infected persons to increase the antiviral treatment rate, and conducting extensive education to promote HBV-infected patients actively seeking medical care from hospitals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31286924	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286924	Cirrhosis
Autophagy	Disrupting the TRIB3-SQSTM1 interaction reduces liver fibrosis by restoring autophagy and suppressing exosome-mediated HSC activation.	Impaired macroautophagy/autophagy is involved in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis. However, how aberrant autophagy promotes fibrosis is far from understood. Here, we aimed to define a previously unrevealed pro-fibrotic mechanism for the stress protein TRIB3 (tribbles pseudokinase 3)-mediated autophagy dysfunction. Human fibrotic liver tissues were obtained from patients with cirrhosis who underwent an open surgical repair process. The functional implications of TRIB3 were evaluated in mouse models of hepatic fibrosis induced by bile duct ligation (BDL) or thioacetamide (TAA) injection. Human fibrotic liver tissues expressed higher levels of TRIB3 and selective autophagic receptor SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1) than nonfibrotic tissues and the elevated expression of TRIB3 and SQSTM1 was positively correlated in the fibrotic tissues. Silencing 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31286822	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286822	Cirrhosis
Zhongguo zhen jiu = Chinese acupuncture & moxibustion	[Umbilical needling therapy of I-Ching at 1 PM to 3 PM for cirrhosis ascites with syndrome of spleen-deficiency and fluid-retention].	Based on the western medicine treatment, the combination of TCM decoction and umbilical needling therapy of I-Ching shows significant efficacy for cirrhosis ascites with syndrome of spleen-deficiency and fluid-retention.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31286732	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286732	Cirrhosis
Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics	Significant reduction in heart rate variability is a feature of acute decompensation of cirrhosis and predicts 90-day mortality.	This study demonstrates that remote wireless HRV monitoring identifies cirrhosis patients at high risk of developing ACLF and death, and suggests such monitoring might guide the need for early intervention in such patients. Clinical Trial number: NIHR clinical research network CPMS ID 4949.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31286545	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286545	Cirrhosis
Viruses	Hepatitis E and Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation: A French Nationwide SFGM-TC Retrospective Study.	Usually self-limited, hepatitis E virus (HEV) infection may evolve to chronicity and cirrhosis in immunosuppressed patients. HEV infection has been described in solid-organ transplantation and hematology patients, but for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (alloHSCT) recipients, only small cohorts are available. This retrospective nationwide multi-center series aimed to describe HEV diagnostic practices in alloHSCT French centers, and the course of infection in the context of alloHSCT. Twenty-nine out of 37 centers participated. HEV search in case of liver function tests (LFT) abnormalities was never performed in 24% of centers, occasionally in 55%, and systematically in 21%. Twenty-five cases of active HEV infection were diagnosed in seven centers, all because of LFT abnormalities, by blood nucleic acid testing. HEV infection was diagnosed in three patients before alloHSCT; HEV infection did not influence transplantation planning, and resolved spontaneously before or after alloHSCT. Twenty-two patients were diagnosed a median of 283 days after alloHSCT. Nine patients (41%) had spontaneous viral clearance, mostly after immunosuppressive treatment decrease. Thirteen patients (59%) received ribavirin, with sustained viral clearance in 11/12 evaluable patients. We observed three HEV recurrences but no HEV-related death or liver failure, nor evolution to cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31284515	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284515	Cirrhosis
Viruses	The Clinical Perspective on Hepatitis E.	Every year, there are an estimated 20 million hepatitis E virus (HEV) infections worldwide, leading to an estimated 3.3 million symptomatic cases of hepatitis E. HEV is largely circulating in the west and is associated with several hepatic and extrahepatic diseases. HEV Genotype 1 and 2 infections are waterborne and causative for epidemics in the tropics, while genotype 3 and 4 infections are zoonotic diseases and are mainly transmitted by ingestion of undercooked pork in industrialized nations. The clinical course of these infections differs: genotype 1 and 2 infection can cause acute illness and can lead to acute liver failure (ALF) or acute on chronic liver failure (ACLF) with a high mortality rate of 20% in pregnant women. In contrast, the majority of HEV GT-3 and -4 infections have a clinically asymptomatic course and only rarely lead to acute on chronic liver failure in elderly or patients with underlying liver disease. Immunosuppressed individuals infected with genotype 3 or 4 may develop chronic hepatitis E, which then can lead to life-threatening cirrhosis. Furthermore, several extra-hepatic manifestations affecting various organs have been associated with ongoing or previous HEV infections but the causal link for many of them still needs to be proven. There is no approved specific therapy for the treatment of acute or chronic HEV GT-3 or -4 infections but off-label use of ribavirin has been demonstrated to be safe and effective in the majority of patients. However, in approximately 15% of chronically HEV infected patients, cure is not possible.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31284447	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284447	Cirrhosis
International journal of antimicrobial agents	Efficacy and safety of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir for chronic hepatitis C virus genotypes 1-6 infection: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	This systematic review and meta-analysis investigated the efficacy and safety of glecaprevir and pibrentasvir (G/P) for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Library and Scopus were searched to identify relevant studies through August 2018. Data from eligible studies were pooled and sustained virologic response 12 weeks post-treatment (SVR12) rates were calculated. Thirteen studies with 3082 patients were included and the overall SVR12 rate was 97.8%. The SVR12 rates of subgroups were: G/P 300/120 mg and 200/120 mg: 97.9% and 98.3%; HCV genotype (GT)1, GT2, GT3 and GT4-6: 99.8%, 99.2%, 96.1% and 100%; G/P and G/P plus ribavirin: 97.9% and 98.2%; G/P (300/120mg) for 8 weeks, 12 weeks and 16 weeks: 98.8%, 98.5% and 95.6%; treatment-naïve and treatment-experienced patients: 96.7% and 98.3%; patients without and with compensated cirrhosis: 99.4% and 98.8%; patients without and with HIV co-infection: 97.8% and 99.4%; and patients without and with severe renal impairment: 97.8% and 99.4%. Virologic failure and relapse as well as serious drug-related adverse events were rare. These results suggest that 8- or 12-week G/P treatment achieved high SVR12 rates in HCV GTs 1-6 patients without or with compensated cirrhosis, with good safety profiles, irrespective of dose, ribavirin use, treatment-experience, HIV co-infection and renal impairment. Due to the limited number of evaluated patients with GT3 infection, further studies are needed to define optimal treatment duration for GT3 cirrhosis patients and patients with prior treatment experience of direct-acting antivirals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31284039	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31284039	Cirrhosis
Transplantation	Survival Benefit of Liver Transplantation for Hepatocellular Carcinoma.	Although LT is associated with significantly increased survival compared to resection and ablation, the absolute incremental survival benefit is small over a 5-year time horizon. Optimal selection of patients for LT is critical for maximizing utilization of a scarce resource.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31283688	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283688	Cirrhosis
European journal of gastroenterology & hepatology	Sarcopenia assessed using bioimpedance analysis is associated independently with significant liver fibrosis in patients with chronic liver diseases.	Sarcopenia is associated independently with significant liver fibrosis in patients with CLDs. Further studies are required to determine whether interventions to improve muscle mass can improve liver fibrosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31283527	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31283527	Cirrhosis
Turk patoloji dergisi	Relation Between Immunohistochemical Expression of Hippo Pathway Effectors and Chronic Hepatitis Induced Fibrosis in Egyptian Patients.	The correlation between Hippo effectors activation and fibrosis in chronic viral hepatitis patients emphasize their role in the development and advancement of hepatic scarring and highlight the use of both YAP and TAZ as novel targets to ameliorate liver fibrosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31282549	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282549	Cirrhosis
Liver transplantation : official publication of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and the International Liver Transplantation Society	Handgrip strength adds more prognostic value to the MELD score than imaging-based measures of muscle mass in men with cirrhosis.	Handgrip strength combined with MELD score was the superior predictive model in this novel study examining three commonly employed techniques to diagnose sarcopenia in cirrhosis. Handgrip strength has additional potential clinical benefits as it can be performed serially without the radiation dose, cost and access issues attributable to CT and DEXA. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31282126	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282126	Cirrhosis
Transplant infectious disease : an official journal of the Transplantation Society	Long-term data on entecavir treatment for treatment-naive or lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B infection in kidney transplant recipients.	ETV showed favorable long-term efficacy and tolerability in treatment-naïve KTRs. One-third of lamivudine-resistant subjects showed non-response or viral breakthrough after ETV treatment. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31282041	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282041	Cirrhosis
Canadian journal of gastroenterology & hepatology	Ischemic Postconditioning (IPostC) Protects Fibrotic and Cirrhotic Rat Livers after Warm Ischemia.	IPostC following warm ischemia protects healthy, fibrotic, and cirrhotic livers against IRI. Reduced efflux of TXB	2019	eng	Journal Article	Egypt	31281804	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281804	Cirrhosis
F1000Research	Management of acute variceal hemorrhage.	Gastrointestinal bleeding is one of the major causes of death in patients with cirrhosis, and gastroesophageal varices represent the main source of hemorrhage. Even though in the last decades survival has been improved because of the widespread adoption of effective treatments and optimization of general medical care, mortality is still significantly high, and decompensated patients pose a complex challenge requiring a multidisciplinary approach that is crucial to improve survival. The aims of this commentary are to review the most recent advances in the management of esophageal variceal bleeding and to highlight useful information to aid hepatologists in clinical practice.	2019	eng	Review	England	31281637	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281637	Cirrhosis
Frontline gastroenterology	Guideline review: British Society of Gastroenterology/UK-PBC Primary Biliary Cholangitis treatment and management guidelines.	New guidelines have been produced for the management of primary biliary cholangitis, an infrequent but nonetheless important autoimmune liver disease. We provide a succient commentary and overview of the key features of disease management that arise from these recent guideline recommendations, with a focus on therapy with licensed agents (ursodeoxycholic acid and obeticholic acid) as well as personalised management of disease complications and associated symptoms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31281627	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281627	Cirrhosis
Theranostics	IL-21-based therapies induce clearance of hepatitis B virus persistence in mouse models.	Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection causes hepatitis, liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) is the sole viral transcription template and not affected by current treatment options, constituting a key determinant of HBV persistence. Novel therapeutics with demonstrable effectiveness against cccDNA are required. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31281514	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281514	Cirrhosis
Journal of Cancer	Serum Prealbumin is Negatively Associated with Survival in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients after Hepatic Resection.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31281477	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281477	Cirrhosis
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	Immunological consequences following splenectomy in patients with liver cirrhosis.	The immune status in patients with liver cirrhosis is generally impaired due to concomitant hypersplenism. As the spleen is the largest lymphoid organ, deleterious events resulting from splenectomy are of concern in these patients. However, the immunological consequences after splenectomy have not yet been fully elucidated. In the present study, the immune status after splenectomy was comprehensively examined. Splenectomy was performed in 11 patients with liver cirrhosis and hypersplenism, and the immune status in peripheral blood was examined and compared before and at 1, 3 and 6 months after splenectomy. Splenectomy significantly lowered the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio, due to a surge in lymphocytes in the peripheral circulation at 3 and 6 months after splenectomy. The frequency of cluster of differentiation (CD)4	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31281459	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281459	Cirrhosis
Gastroenterology research and practice	Meta-Analysis of Antinuclear Antibodies in the Diagnosis of Antimitochondrial Antibody-Negative Primary Biliary Cholangitis.	ANAs exhibited high specificity but low sensitivity and therefore could be used as reliable biomarkers to reduce the necessity of liver histology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Egypt	31281353	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281353	Cirrhosis
Journal of hepatology	ALDH2 deficiency promotes alcohol-associated liver cancer by activating oncogenic pathways via oxidized DNA enriched extracellular vesicles.	ALDH2 deficiency is associated with an increased risk of alcohol related-HCC development from fibrosis in patients and in mice. Mechanistic studies reveal a novel mechanism that Aldh2-deficient hepatocytes promote alcohol-associated HCC by transferring harmful oxidized mtDNA-enriched EVs into HCC and subsequently activating multiple oncogenic pathways in HCC. Lay Summary Alcoholics with ALDH2 polymorphism have an increased risk of digestive track cancer development, however, the link between ALDH2 deficiency and HCC development has not been well established. In this study, we show that ALDH2 deficiency exacerbates alcohol-associated HCC development both in patients and mouse models. Mechanistic studies revealed that after chronic alcohol exposure, Aldh2-deficient hepatocytes produce a large amount of harmful oxidized mitochondrial DNA via extracellular vesicles, which can be delivered into neighboring HCC cells and subsequently activate multiple oncogenic pathways, thereby promoting HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279903	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279903	Cirrhosis
Journal of hepatology	O-GlcNAcylation-dependent upregulation of HO1 triggers ammonia-induced oxidative stress and senescence in hepatic encephalopathy.	The present study identified the glucosamine synthesis-dependent protein O-GlcNAcylation as a novel mechanism in the pathogenesis of HE that triggers oxidative and ER stress and senescence through upregulation of HO1 and Nox4. Lay summary Patients with liver cirrhosis frequently exhibit hyperammonemia and suffer from cognitive and motoric dysfunctions which at least in part involve premature ageing of the astrocytes in the brain. This study identifies glucosamine and an O-GlcNAcylation-dependent disruption of the iron homeostasis as novel triggers of oxidative stress thereby mediating ammonia toxicity in the brain.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279900	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279900	Cirrhosis
Metabolism: clinical and experimental	Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy reverses non-alcoholic fatty liver disease modulating oxidative stress and inflammation.	Our study shows that the histology and liver function of patients with morbid obesity are significantly improved after LSG via mechanisms that involve the reduction of oxidative stress and inflammatory processes. These data encourage the use of LSG as a therapeutic option to improve, or resolve, NAFLD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279739	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279739	Cirrhosis
Annals of hepatology	Screening for esophageal varices in cirrhotic patients - Non-invasive methods.	Variceal bleeding is a dramatic complication of cirrhosis. Primary prophylaxis against variceal bleeding is indicated for patients with high-risk varices. In order for these patients to be identified, endoscopic screening for esophageal varices has been traditionally recommended at the time of the diagnosis of cirrhosis. Considering that many patients do not have esophageal varices in the early stages of cirrhosis and, therefore, are submitted to endoscopy unnecessarily, non-invasive methods for variceal screening have been studied. Among these non-invasive methods, the most extensively studied probably are platelet count/spleen diameter ratio, liver stiffness, spleen stiffness and an association between liver stiffness and platelet count, referred to as the Baveno VI criteria. The Baveno VI criteria has recently been recommended by different medical associations for variceal screening. This is a critical review on the non-invasive methods for variceal screening, in which the performances of the different methods are presented and the limitations of the existing evidence is discussed. Despite reasonable performances of some of these methods, especially platelet count/spleen diameter ratio and the association between liver stiffness and platelet count, we understand that the available evidence still has relevant limitations and that physicians should decide on screening cirrhotic patients for esophageal varices with endoscopy or non-invasive methods on a case-by-case basis.	2019	eng	Review	Mexico	31279653	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279653	Cirrhosis
International journal of infectious diseases : IJID : official publication of the International Society for Infectious Diseases	Detection and characterization of hepatitis E virus genotype-3 in HIV-infected patients and blood donors from Southern Brazil.	The prevalence rates of HEV infection were comparable between HIV-seropositive patients not severely immunocompromised and blood donors. The blood donor´s HEV isolate showed high similarity with swine HEV strains from Brazilian herds of the same region, thus indicating a potential risk of foodborne and parenteral transmission via blood transfusion.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31279609	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279609	Cirrhosis
Journal of the Formosan Medical Association = Taiwan yi zhi	Real-world effectiveness and safety of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir in Asian patients with chronic hepatitis C.	Interferon-free GLE/PIB regimen is highly effective and safe for Asian chronic hepatitis C patients with advanced hepatic fibrosis or compensated cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Singapore	31279502	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279502	Cirrhosis
Nutrition journal	Zinc supplementation in patients with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	PROSPERO: CRD42017080955 . Registered 23 November 2017.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31279342	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279342	Cirrhosis
Medical science monitor : international medical journal of experimental and clinical research	A Novel Use of Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) Score in Guiding Therapeutic Antibiotics Choice for Critically Ill Cirrhotic Patients.	BACKGROUND Inappropriate use of antibiotics results in antimicrobial resistance and dysbacteriosis. Among critically ill cirrhotic patients, consensus regarding the most optimal prescription strategy for antibiotics use has not been achieved. For these patients, the score for end-stage liver disease (MELD) demonstrated its value in predicting prognosis of cirrhosis. This study investigated use of the MELD score to guide antibiotics choice. MATERIAL AND METHODS We enrolled 1250 patients with cirrhosis. We collected patient information, including antibiotics administration. Linear regression analyses were performed to determine independent predictors of antibiotic administration. Survival curves were constructed based on Cox regression models. Cox proportional hazard models were used to calculate the hazard ratio, shown by forest plots. RESULTS The population was equally stratified into 4 groups based on the MELD score (Q1: MELD <10; Q2: 10≤ MELD <17; Q3: 17≤ MELD <26; Q4: 26≤ MELD). In Q1, all the HR (hazard ratio) related to the duration of antibiotics use demonstrated no statistical significance. In Q2, the HR related to the duration of antibiotics use revealed a successive decrease. In Q3, the HR showed statistical significance only with a duration of antibiotics use of 7 days or more. In Q4, all the HR were statistically significant. As for categories of antibiotics use, whatever the MELD score was, the HR continued to increase with ascending categories. CONCLUSIONS For low MELD score patients (MELD <17), changing the duration of antibiotics use was not associated with a better prognosis. For high MELD score patients (MELD ≥17), longer duration of antibiotics use was associated with a reduction in mortality. Whatever the MELD score was, an increase of number of antibiotic categories was positively associat ed with poor prognosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31278890	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278890	Cirrhosis
Health economics review	The cost-effectiveness of albumin in the treatment of decompensated cirrhosis in Germany, Italy, and Spain.	This analysis demonstrates that albumin is cost-effective in terms of lives saved and QALYs gained in the management of decompensated cirrhosis associated with LVP, SBP, or HRS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31278624	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278624	Cirrhosis
European radiology	Doughnut-like hyperintense nodules on hepatobiliary phase without arterial-phase hyperenhancement in cirrhotic liver: imaging and clinicopathological features.	• HBP-doughnut nodules without APHE were seen in 6% of patients with liver cirrhosis. • The enhancement peak of HBP-doughnut nodules without APHE was in the portal phase, which reflected the fact that they were supplied predominantly by the portal vein, based on angiography-assisted CT findings. • None of the HBP-doughnut nodules without APHE in cirrhotic liver became malignant, and in conjunction with limited pathological features, they may be corresponding to multiacinar cirrhotic nodules in the International Working Party classification.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31278576	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278576	Cirrhosis
Nature reviews. Gastroenterology & hepatology	NAFLD in children: new genes, new diagnostic modalities and new drugs.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has rapidly become the most common form of chronic liver disease in children and adolescents. Over the past 5 years, developments have revolutionized our understanding of the genetic factors, natural history, diagnostic modalities and therapeutic targets for this disease. New polymorphisms, such as those in PNPLA3, TM6SF2, MBOAT7 and GCKR, have been identified and used to predict the development and severity of NAFLD in both adults and children, and their interaction with environmental factors has been elucidated. Studies have demonstrated the true burden of paediatric NAFLD and its progression to end-stage liver disease in adulthood. In particular, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis can progress to advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis, emphasizing the importance of early diagnosis. Non-invasive imaging tests, such as transient elastography, will probably replace liver biopsy for the diagnosis of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and the assessment of fibrosis severity in the near future. The therapeutic landscape is also expanding rapidly with the development of drugs that can modify liver steatosis, inflammation and fibrosis, indicating that pharmacotherapy for NAFLD will become available in the future. In this Review, we summarize current knowledge and new advances related to the pathogenesis and management of paediatric NAFLD.	2019	eng	Review	England	31278377	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31278377	Cirrhosis
Medicine	Ultrasound is highly specific in diagnosing compensated cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis C patients in real world clinical practice.	Ultrasound is routinely used during the evaluation of liver cirrhosis. Inter-observer variability is considered a major drawback. This retrospective study investigated the accuracy of ultrasound in diagnosing compensated cirrhosis (i.e., modified Knodell F3, F4) in chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients in real world clinical practice. Consecutive treatment-naive CHC patients who underwent liver biopsy (LB) prior to interferon therapy from 1997 to 2010 were enrolled. Ultrasound was performed by 30 hepatologists prior to LB. Ultrasound-identified cirrhosis was defined as small liver size, nodular liver surface and coarse liver parenchyma. LB was used as a reference, and the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound was assessed and compared. Fibrosis was scored according to the modified Knodell classification. A cohort comprising 1738 patients, including 922 men and 816 women with a mean age of 52.5 years, was analyzed in the present study. The distribution of the patients' modified Knodell scores was F0 = 336, F1 = 489, F2 = 165, F3 = 315, F4 = 433. Ultrasound-identified cirrhosis was noted in 283 patients. Using ultrasound-identified cirrhosis to predict compensated cirrhosis, the sensitivity was 34.0%, the specificity was 97.1%, the positive predictive value was 89.8%, the negative predictive value was 66.1%, the positive likelihood ratio was 11.6, and the negative likelihood ratio was 0.68. The area under the ROC curve (AUROC) was 0.66.Despite being affected by inter-observer variability, ultrasound is highly specific in diagnosing compensated cirrhosis in CHC patients in real world clinical practice. However, the sensitivity is low.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31277150	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31277150	Cirrhosis
Journal of pain and symptom management	COMPASS: A Pilot Trial of an Early Palliative Care Intervention for Patients with End Stage Liver Disease.	Logistical obstacles hindered completion of the trial as originally designed. Nevertheless, a preemptive palliative care intervention resulted in increased time to first readmission and more days alive outside of the hospital in the first six months after study entry.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31276810	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276810	Cirrhosis
The British journal of surgery	Impact of postoperative infective complications on long-term survival after liver resection for hepatocellular carcinoma.	Postoperative infective complications decreased long-term OS and RFS in patients treated with liver resection for HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31276196	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31276196	Cirrhosis
Frontiers in oncology	Rethinking the Role of Radiation Therapy in the Treatment of Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Data Driven Treatment Algorithm for Optimizing Outcomes.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the second most common cause of cancer death worldwide, with a majority of HCC patients not suitable for curative therapies. Approximately 70% of initially diagnosed patients cannot undergo surgical resection or transplantation due to locally advanced disease, poor liver function/underlying cirrhosis, or additional comorbidities. Local therapeutic options for patients with unresectable HCC, who are not suitable for thermal ablation, include transarterial embolization (bland, chemoembolization, radioembolization) and/or external beam radiation therapy (EBRT). Regarding EBRT specifically, technological advancements provide a means for safe and effective radiotherapy delivery in a wide spectrum of HCC patients. In multiple prospective studies, EBRT delivery in a variety of different fractionation schemes or in combination with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) demonstrate improved outcomes, particularly with combination therapy. The Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer classification provides a framework for treatment selection; however, given the growing complexity of treatment strategies, this classification system tends to simplify decision-making. In this review, we discuss the current literature regarding unresectable HCC and propose a modified treatment algorithm that emphasizes the role of radiation therapy for Child-Pugh score A or B patients with ≤3 nodules measuring >3 cm, multinodular disease or portal venous thrombosis.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31275846	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275846	Cirrhosis
PeerJ	Wnt signaling in liver disease: emerging trends from a bibliometric perspective.	Using bibliometric methods, we quantitatively summarized the advancements and emerging trends in Wnt signaling in liver diseases. These bibliometric findings may pioneer the future direction of this field in the next few years, and further studies are needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31275745	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275745	Cirrhosis
International journal of hepatology	Diagnostic Utility of Serum Ascites Lipid and Protein Gradients in Differentiation of Ascites.	With a cut-off value of 4, SAPG is one of best screening tests in differentiation of cirrhotic with noncirrhotic ascites when compared with SAAG, whereas it is a poor parameter with high sensitivity and very low specificity in differentiation of malignant with nonmalignant ascites. Also the present study reveals HDL cholesterol levels in ascitic fluid to be a valuable marker with higher sensitivity and specificity in differentiation of malignancy and tuberculosis peritonitis (i.e., differentiation of low SAAG ascites).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31275659	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275659	Cirrhosis
BMJ open gastroenterology	Factors associated with renal dysfunction in hepatitis C-related cirrhosis and its correlation with Child-Pugh score.	Ascites and encephalopathy are associated with RD in HCV cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31275583	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275583	Cirrhosis
Journal of surgical case reports	Transabdominal preperitoneal repair using barbed sutures for bilateral inguinal hernia in liver cirrhosis with ascites.	The appropriate surgical treatment for inguinal hernia in patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites remains controversial. A 79-year-old male undergoing treatment for Child-Pugh B hepatitis C-induced liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma complicated with bilateral inguinal hernia underwent transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) repair. During surgery, barbed sutures were used to facilitate appropriate peritoneal closure. His postoperative course was uneventful. Information on TAPP repair for inguinal hernia in patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites is limited. The International Guidelines for Inguinal Hernia Management recommend Lichtenstein repair for patients with ascites. TAPP repair requires peritonectomy via a posterior endoscopic approach; therefore, proper peritoneal closure is important to prevent the leakage of ascitic fluid. Herein, TAPP repair was safely and successfully completed using barbed sutures to achieve proper and strong peritoneal closure. TAPP repair using barbed sutures can be an effective treatment option for patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites.	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31275552	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275552	Cirrhosis
Heart Asia	Safety of performing transoesophageal echocardiography in patients with oesophageal varices.	TEE is not a common procedure performed in patients with pre-existing EV. TEE seems to be a safe diagnostic tool for evaluation of heart diseases in this group of patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31275433	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31275433	Cirrhosis
Journal of the American Association of Nurse Practitioners	Readiness for the epidemic: The adult nonalcoholic fatty liver disease toolkit for primary care nurse practitioners.	The results of this pilot study demonstrate successful implementation and positive outcomes of an EBP toolkit and support its expanded use. Continued evaluation on a larger scale is needed. Health care providers can use the process described in this article to develop and implement toolkits to support EBP of other PC issues.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31274677	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274677	Cirrhosis
European journal of gastroenterology & hepatology	Effect of adding daclatasvir in sofosbuvir-based therapy in genotype 3 hepatitis C: real-world experience in Pakistan.	In patients with chronic hepatitis C genotype 3, SOF/RBV and SOF/DCV±RBV have similar sustained viral response, and patients with liver cirrhosis and past treatment experience have suboptimal response in Pakistan.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31274596	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274596	Cirrhosis
European journal of gastroenterology & hepatology	Critical flickering frequency test: a diagnostic tool for minimal hepatic encephalopathy.	MHE is common among patients with liver cirrhosis. CFF is a simple, rapid, noninvasive test for diagnosis of MHE, with a very good accuracy at 39 Hz.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31274595	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274595	Cirrhosis
Saudi journal of gastroenterology : official journal of the Saudi Gastroenterology Association	Development of pancreatic cancer during observation for hepatocellular carcinoma: A retrospective cohort study.	Increased incidence of pancreatic cancer was found in patients under observation for HCC in a relatively small cohort. HCC or other common underlying conditions might be a risk factor for development of pancreatic cancer.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31274472	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274472	Cirrhosis
Journal of synchrotron radiation	Three-dimensional visualization of fibrous tissues in cirrhotic rats via X-ray phase-contrast computed tomography with iodine staining.	To accurately characterize cirrhosis, knowledge of the 3D fibrous structures is essential. Histology is the gold standard in cirrhosis screening, but it mainly provides structural information in 2D planes and destroys the 3D samples in the process. The aim of this study was to evaluate the potential of X-ray phase-contrast computed tomography (PCCT) with iodine staining for the 3D nondestructive visualization of internal structural details in entire cirrhotic livers with histopathologic correlation. In this study, cirrhotic livers induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31274464	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274464	Cirrhosis
Journal of cellular and molecular medicine	Kaempferol attenuates liver fibrosis by inhibiting activin receptor-like kinase 5.	Liver fibrosis is a common public health problem. Patients with liver fibrosis are more likely to develop cirrhosis, or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as a more serious consequence. Numerous therapeutic approaches have emerged, but the final clinical outcome remains unsatisfactory. Here, we discovered a flavonoid natural product kaempferol that could dramatically ameliorate liver fibrosis formation. Our data showed that intraperitoneal injection of kaempferol could significantly decrease the necroinflammatory scores and collagen deposition in the liver tissue. In addition, serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), laminin (LN) and hyaluronic acid (HA) levels were significantly down-regulated in kaempferol treatment group compared with those in the control group. Our study also demonstrated that kaempferol markedly inhibited the synthesis of collagen and activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, the results of Western blotting revealed that kaempferol could down-regulate Smad2/3 phosphorylation dose-dependently. These bioactivities of kaempferol may result from its targeted binding to the ATP-binding pocket of activin receptor-like kinase 5 (ALK5), as suggested by the molecular docking study and LanthaScreen Eu kinase binding assay. Above all, our data indicate that kaempferol may prove to be a novel agent for the treatment of liver fibrosis or other fibroproliferative diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31273920	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273920	Cirrhosis
Hepatology research : the official journal of the Japan Society of Hepatology	Slow Walking Speed Overlapped with Low Hand Grip Strength in Chronic Liver Disease Patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma.	No difference was seen in the prevalence of muscle dysfunction between the AWGS and JSH criteria in CLD patients with HCC. Furthermore, all patients with slow walking speed also exhibited low hand grip strength. Thus, for the evaluation of muscle dysfunction, grip strength may be a suitable proxy for walking speed in CLD patients with HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31273895	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273895	Cirrhosis
Hepatology international	The prognostic role of liver stiffness in patients with chronic liver disease: a systematic review and dose-response meta-analysis.	The dose-response meta-analysis presents a combination between the levels of baseline LS and RRs for each clinically relevant outcome. TE, which is noninvasive, might be a novel strategy for risk stratification and identification of patients at high risk of developing these outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31273618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273618	Cirrhosis
Hepatology international	Hepatology through the crystal ball.	The rapidity of the increase in the global burden of liver disease covered in this review with estimates worldwide of 2 million deaths from cirrhosis and with no signs of effective controls being introduced for two of the main causes, namely, excess alcohol consumption and obesity, is of great concern. The 25% prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in many population groups and the recent description of primary hepatocellular cancer (HCC) in obese subjects without underlying severe fibrosis/cirrhosis also raises many questions. In addition, covered in this review are more encouraging areas including techniques for machine preservation of donor organs enabling previously marginal organs to be used for transplantation. Greater knowledge of gut microbiome and gut bacterial translocation is defining the inflammatory reaction underlying multi-organ failure in decompensated cirrhosis. The gut microbiome also influences the response of HCC patients to the new check-point inhibitor drugs which restore immunological responses of its host.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31273617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31273617	Cirrhosis
Hepatology (Baltimore, Md.)	Noninvasive tests accurately identify advanced fibrosis due to NASH: Baseline data from the STELLAR trials.	Accurate noninvasive tests (NITs) are needed to replace liver biopsy for identifying advanced fibrosis due to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We analyzed screening data from two phase 3 trials of selonsertib to assess the ability of NITs to discriminate advanced fibrosis. Centrally read biopsies from the STELLAR studies, which enrolled patients with bridging fibrosis and compensated cirrhosis, were staged according to the NASH Clinical Research Network (CRN) classification. We explored associations between fibrosis stage and NITs, including the NAFLD fibrosis score (NFS), Fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) index, Enhanced Liver Fibrosis (ELF) test, and liver stiffness by vibration-controlled transient elastography (LS by VCTE). The performance of these tests to discriminate advanced fibrosis, either alone or in combinations, was evaluated using AUROCs with 5-fold cross-validation repeated 100 times. Of the 4404 patients screened for these trials, 3202 had evaluable biopsy data: 940 with F0-F2 and 2262 with F3-F4 fibrosis. Significant differences between median values of NITs for patients with F0-F2 vs F3-F4 fibrosis were observed: -0.972 vs 0.318 for NFS, 1.18 vs 2.20 for FIB-4, 9.22 vs 10.39 for ELF, and 8.8 vs 16.5 kPa for LS by VCTE (all p<0.001). AUROCs ranged from 0.75-0.80 to discriminate advanced fibrosis. FIB-4 followed by LS by VCTE or ELF test in those with indeterminate values (FIB-4 between 1.3 and 2.67) maintained acceptable performance while reducing the rate of indeterminate results. CONCLUSIONS: Among patients being considered for enrolment into clinical trials, NITs alone or in combination can reduce the need for liver biopsy to discriminate advanced fibrosis due to NASH. The predictive value of these tests for general screening will require confirmation in a real-world population. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31271665	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31271665	Cirrhosis
JMIR medical informatics	Descriptive Usability Study of CirrODS: Clinical Decision and Workflow Support Tool for Management of Patients With Cirrhosis.	We developed a novel Web-based combined clinical decision-making and workflow support tool to alert and assist clinicians caring for patients with cirrhosis. Further studies are underway to assess the impact on quality of care for patients with cirrhosis in actual practice.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31271153	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31271153	Cirrhosis
Magnetic resonance in medicine	Characterizing a short T	A liver short-T	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31270858	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270858	Cirrhosis
La Radiologia medica	Thermal ablation with fusion imaging guidance of hepatocellular carcinoma without conspicuity on conventional or contrast-enhanced US: surrounding anatomical landmarks matter.	Even in the presence of potentially critical conditions (completely B-Mode/CEUS inconspicuous nodules, spontaneous breathing, and previously acquired CT or MRI), FI-only guidance is safe and allows having good primary, secondary efficacy and LTP rates. The outcome of the procedure is heavily affected by the presence of SAL.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31270723	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270723	Cirrhosis
Gut	Role of portal venous platelet activation in patients with decompensated cirrhosis and TIPS.	 	2019	eng	Letter	England	31270166	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31270166	Cirrhosis
PloS one	A novel model for predicting posthepatectomy liver failure in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.	Posthepatectomy liver failure (PHLF) is the most leading cause of mortality following hepatectomy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Platelet count was reported to be a simple but useful indicator of liver cirrhosis and function of spleen. Spleen stiffness (SS) was used to evaluate the morphological change of spleen and was reported to be related to liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension. However, the predictive value of platelet to spleen stiffness ratio (PSR) on PHLF remains unknown. A retrospective study was performed to analyze 158 patients with HCC following hepatectomy from August 2015 to February 2016. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to evaluate the value of each risk factor for predicting PHLF. The predictive efficiency of the risk factors was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. PHLF occured in 23 (14.6%) patients. PSR (P<0.001, odds ratio (OR) = 0.622, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.493~0.784), hepatic inflow occlusion (HIO) (P = 0.003, OR = 1.044, 95% CI 1.015~1.075) and major hepatectomy (P = 0.019, OR = 5.967, 95% CI 1.346~26.443) were demonstrated to be the independent predictive factors for development of PHLF in a multivariate analysis. Results of the present study suggested PSR is a novel and non-invasive model for predicting PHLF in patients with HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31269063	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269063	Cirrhosis
PloS one	Analysis of causes of death using verbal autopsies and vital registration in Hidalgo, Mexico.	The application of VAs in a community sample, analyzed with the Tariff method, allowed assigning a cause of death to most of the cases, with results similar to those of vital statistics for most conditions. This tool can be useful to strengthen the quality of vital statistics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31269042	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269042	Cirrhosis
PloS one	Cadherin-11 contributes to liver fibrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride.	These data demonstrate that CDH11 is increased during liver fibrosis, is an important regulator of liver fibrosis induced by CCL4 and suggest that CDH11 may be a potential therapeutic target for liver fibrosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31269038	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269038	Cirrhosis
European journal of gastroenterology & hepatology	Comparison of clinical manifestations and outcomes of noncirrhotic and cirrhotic hepatocellular carcinoma patients with chronic hepatitis B.	After PSM, cumulative OS rates were similar between HBV-related HCC patients with and without cirrhosis, and they were clearly dependent on CTP class, regardless of the presence of cirrhosis itself both in cirrhotic and noncirrhotic patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31268949	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268949	Cirrhosis
Analytical chemistry	Optimized Fragmentation for Quantitative Analysis of Fucosylated N-Glycoproteins by LC-MS-MRM.	Quantitative analysis of site specific glycoforms of proteins is technically challenging but highly desirable; resolution of the fucosylated glycoforms is of particular interest due to their biological importance. In this study, we developed a sensitive and specific LC-MS-MRM quantification method that distinguishes the outer arm and core fucosylated configurations of the N-glycopeptides. We take advantage of limited fragmentation of the glycopeptides at low collision energy CID to produce linkage-specific Y-ions. We select these informative ions as MRM transitions for the quantification of the outer arm and total fucosylation of 12 fucosylated glycoforms of 9 glycopeptides in 7 plasma proteins. Our workflow showed improved sensitivity and specificity of quantification of the glycopeptides compared to oxonium ion transitions which allowed us to quantify the glycoforms directly in plasma or serum without fractionation of the samples or glycopeptide enrichment. A pilot study of fucosylation in liver cirrhosis of the HCV and NASH etiologies confirms the quantitative capabilities of the method and shows that liver cirrhosis is consistently associated with increased outer arm fucosylation of majority of the analyzed proteins. The results show that the outer arm fucosylation of the A2G2F1 glycoform of the VDKDLQSLEDILHQVENK peptide of fibrinogen increases greater than 10-fold in the HCV and NASH patients compared to healthy controls.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31268672	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31268672	Cirrhosis
Veterinary medicine and science	Chronic equine hepacivirus infection in an adult gelding with severe hepatopathy.	EqHV can be associated with liver disease in horses. Whether it causes the disease or contributes in a multifactorial manner needs further investigation.	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31267690	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31267690	Cirrhosis
Scandinavian journal of immunology	Anti-centrosome antibodies: Prevalence and Disease Association in Chinese Population.	Anti-centrosome antibodies are featured by a low prevalence and female gender predominance. They are correlated with some specific diseases, both autoimmune diseases, especially UCTD, RA, SS and PBC, and non-autoimmune diseases, such as infection and cancer, which suggests that they might be potential supporting serological markers of these diseases. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31267615	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31267615	Cirrhosis
Clinics and research in hepatology and gastroenterology	Seroprevalence of Hepatitis E virus infection in children after liver transplantation: A single-center experience in France.	The prevalence of HEV infection in our cohort is low and similar to other pediatric reports. We saw no cases of chronic hepatitis or fibrosis attributable to HEV. The lower immunosuppressive regimen used in PLT children compared to other solid organ transplant recipients may account for this good outcome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31266724	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266724	Cirrhosis
American journal of surgery	Antiviral therapy improves post-operative survival outcomes in patients with HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma of less than 3 cm - A retrospective cohort study.	Antiviral therapy improved the prognosis of small HBV-related HCC of less than 3 cm. The survival benefit was also detected in patients with cirrhosis. Antiviral therapy should be considered a routine post-operative therapy for patients with HBV-related HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31266631	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266631	Cirrhosis
Clinics in liver disease	HBV/HDV Coinfection: A Challenge for Therapeutics.	Chronic hepatitis D (CHD) results from an infection with the hepatitis B virus and hepatitis D virus (HDV). CHD is the most severe form of human viral hepatitis. Current treatment options consist of interferon alfa, which is effective only in a minority of patients. Study of HDV molecular virology has resulted in new approaches entering clinical trials, with phase-3 studies the most advanced. These include the entry inhibitor bulevirtide, the nucleic acid polymer REP 2139-Ca, the farnesyltransferase inhibitor lonafarnib, and pegylated interferon lambda. This article summarizes the available data on these emerging therapeutics.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31266627	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266627	Cirrhosis
Clinics in liver disease	HBV/HCV Coinfection in the Era of HCV-DAAs.	Epidemiologic studies suggest that 10% to 15% of patients infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) are coinfected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) in the United States as a result of the shared modality of transmission, but the true prevalence is not known. The progression of liver disease to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma is generally faster in patients who are coinfected, and HCV is usually more predominant. Immunosuppression of the host or eradication of hepatitis C can change this paradigm, causing hepatitis B reactivation. This review describes HCV-HBV viral interactions, risks for reactivation, screening, and society guidelines for surveillance and treatment.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31266620	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266620	Cirrhosis
Clinics in liver disease	The Effects of Hepatic Steatosis on the Natural History of HBV Infection.	Fatty liver prevalence is increasing and becoming a global health burden. Chronic hepatitis B infection (CHB) is one of the most common chronic viral infections. Steatosis in CHB patients increases risk of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Data from studies on the interaction between CHB and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease are not conclusive. Liver biopsy is the gold standard for diagnosis of fatty liver; however, noninvasive diagnostic tests have been developed to diagnose and predict fibrosis in CHB/NAFLD. Treatment guidelines are not clear.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31266618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266618	Cirrhosis
Clinics in liver disease	WHO Guidelines for Prevention, Care and Treatment of Individuals Infected with HBV: A US Perspective.	The prevalence of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) differs globally. CHB is responsible for 30% of all deaths from cirrhosis and 40% from hepatocellular carcinoma. The WHO developed guidelines in 2015 on prevention, care, and treatment of chronic HBV infection targeted to program managers in all health care settings, particularly in low- and middle-income countries. Several of the recommendations differ from those of the major Liver Societies, including the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD). This review highlights key differences between the AASLD and WHO guidelines and discusses the impact on management of CHB.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31266617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266617	Cirrhosis
Clinics in liver disease	Understanding the Natural History of Hepatitis B Virus Infection and the New Definitions of Cure and the Endpoints of Clinical Trials.	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is the most common chronic viral infection worldwide and remains a significant global health problem. Chronic HBV infection can progress to cirrhosis, liver failure, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Outcome of chronic HBV infections depends on the host, virus, and environmental factors. Although effective prophylactic vaccines and antiviral therapies exist, curative treatment is not yet available. Intense research into a cure for HBV is ongoing and proposed definitions of cure and endpoints for clinical trials evaluating "curative" therapy are discussed.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31266616	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266616	Cirrhosis
Clinics in liver disease	Global Perspective on Hepatitis B Virus Infections in the Era of Effective Vaccines.	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a global health burden. The chronicity of this infection leads to complication such as cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, making it a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Chronic infection commonly develops among those who acquire infection during childhood, hence the importance of effective implementation of HBV vaccination policies designed to eradicate chronic HBV. This article provides updated estimates of worldwide HBV disease prevalence and discusses how implementation of vaccination policies has affected HBV epidemiology.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31266615	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31266615	Cirrhosis
Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology	Index Admission Cholecystectomy for Acute Biliary Pancreatitis Favorably Impacts Outcomes of Hospitalization in Cirrhosis.	Presence of cirrhosis adversely impacts hospital outcomes of patients with ABP. Among modifiable factors, index-admission cholecystectomy portends favorable prognosis by reducing risk of early readmission and consequent calendar-year mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31264249	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264249	Cirrhosis
Case reports in critical care	Critical Illness Associated Fatal Hypoglycemia in a Nondiabetic Male.	We present here the case of a 55-year-old male who presented to the emergency department with severe abdominal pain and respiratory distress secondary to mesenteric ischemia. His critical illness on preexisting chronic kidney disease, previously undiagnosed alcoholic cirrhosis, and congestive heart failure led to a rare yet fatal consequence of refractory hypoglycemia. Critical illness associated hypoglycemia generally occurs as a result of high metabolic consumption with relative insulin excess and insufficient nutritional intake that is seen frequently in critically ill patients. This, along with reduced hepatic and renal gluconeogenesis seen in preexisting liver and renal disease, can cumulate to life-threatening hypoglycemia and is seen as a poor prognostic factor in the ICU setting.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31263604	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31263604	Cirrhosis
Genetics in medicine : official journal of the American College of Medical Genetics	Liver fibrosis during clinical ascertainment of glycogen storage disease type III: a need for improved and systematic monitoring.	Liver fibrosis can occur at an early age, and may explain the decrease in aminotransferases and Glc	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31263214	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31263214	Cirrhosis
Scientific reports	Expression of neuropeptide Y is increased in an activated human HSC cell line.	Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is an abundant neuropeptide in the mammalian central and peripheral nervous systems. Transgenic mice overexpressing NPY in noradrenergic neurons have increased level of hepatic triglycerides, fatty acids and cholesterol, which contributed to the development of hepatosteatosis. However, the roles of NPY in the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the expression and secretion of NPY in human immortalized HSC LX-2 cells and the regulatory function of NPY on the fibrogenic response in LX-2 cells, to explore the potential association between NPY and LX-2 activation. The results showed an increase in the expression and secretion of NPY(1-36) in activated LX-2 cells. Both endogenous and exogenous NPY(1-36) induced the phosphorylation of mTOR, p70S6K, and 4EBP1 and promoted the fibrogenic response via NPY Y1 receptor subtype (NPY1R), as these responses were blocked by either an NPY1R antagonist (BIBP3226) or NPY1R knockdown. Moreover, NPY(1-36) serum levels were increased in patients with liver cirrhosis (LC) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and presented a positive relationship with MELD scores in LC patients. These findings suggest that immortalized HSCs LX-2 have the potential to produce NPY(1-36). High serum levels of NPY(1-36) is correlated with hepatic dysfunction in cirrhotic patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31263154	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31263154	Cirrhosis
Revista de gastroenterologia de Mexico	Exercise prescription in patients with cirrhosis: Recommendations for clinical practice.	Exercise in cirrhosis of the liver is an emerging topic in hepatology. Despite the known benefits of exercise in the general population, there are currently few studies addressing that issue in relation to cirrhosis and more evidence is still needed. Even though some studies have reported a sharp, exercise-induced increase in the hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG), the opposite (a decrease in the HVPG) has been shown by recent data after an exercise program carried out for>14 weeks. In addition to that benefit, improvement has been described in the metabolic profile, quality of life, muscle mass, cardiopulmonary function, and nutritional status. Together, those features make exercise in cirrhosis a very attractive intervention. However, certain aspects must be taken into account before prescribing exercise in that population and they include cardiovascular risk, musculoskeletal disorders, and complications related to cirrhosis. After considering those factors, an individually tailored exercise program should be developed for each patient, according to the points stated above and the desired goal. Information about exercise-limiting factors, type of exercise prescribed, monitoring methods, and concomitant nutritional therapy is provided in the present review.	2019	spa	Review	Mexico	31262552	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31262552	Cirrhosis
Medicine	Sandwich method with or without lauromacrogol in the treatment of gastric variceal bleeding with liver cirrhosis: A meta-analysis.	This meta-analysis indicated that the modified sandwich method with lauromacrogol is more effective than the traditional sandwich method without lauromacrogol. Due to the limited number of studies and samples, more RCT studies are needed to further validate the efficacy and safety of the modified sandwich method with lauromacrogol in the treatment of GVB with liver cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31261565	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31261565	Cirrhosis
Medicine	Role of ascitic prostaglandin E2 in diagnosis of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and prediction of in-hospital mortality in patients with decompensated cirrhosis.	Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) is one of the most frequent and severe complications in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. Early antibiotic therapy is extremely important for successful treatment and reducing mortality. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is a regulator of the immune response and infection. This study aimed to explore whether ascitic PGE2 could be used as a marker for diagnosing SBP and predicting in-hospital mortality.Patients with cirrhosis and ascites undergoing abdominal paracentesis were enrolled in our study. Demographic, clinical, and laboratory parameters were recorded at the time of paracentesis and ascitic PGE2 levels were determined by ELISA. The correlation between ascitic PGE2 level and SBP as well as in-hospital mortality were analyzed.There were 224 patients enrolled, 29 (13%) patients diagnosed as SBP based on the current guideline criteria. The ascitic PGE2 level of patients with SBP [32.77 (26.5-39.68) pg/mL] was significantly lower than that of patients without SBP [49.72 (37.35-54.72) pg/mL]. In ROC analysis, the AUC of ascitic PGE2 for the diagnosis of SBP was 0.75, and the AUC of ascitic PGE2 combined with WBC and ascitic PGE2 combined with neutrophils were 0.90 and 0.90, respectively, which were significantly higher than that of ascitic PGE2. In multivariate analysis, ascites PGE2≤32.88 pg/mL (OR: 9.39; 95% CI: 1.41-67.44, P = .026), hepatic encephalopathy (OR: 18.39; 95% CI: 3.00-113.13, P = .002) and a higher MELD score (OR: 1.25; 95% CI: 1.05-1.40, P = .009) remained independent predictors of in-hospital mortality.Ascitic PGE2 level is likely to be a valuable marker in prediction of in-hospital mortality in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, and its value in diagnosis of SBP was not superior to other inflammatory indicators.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31261505	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31261505	Cirrhosis
Medicine	Efficacy of drug-eluting bead transarterial chemoembolization (DEB-TACE) combined with radiofrequency ablation versus DEB-TACE alone in Chinese hepatocellular carcinoma patients.	To compare the efficacy of drug-eluting bead transarterial chemoembolization combined with radiofrequency ablation (DEB-TACE+RFA) versus DEB-TACE alone in Chinese hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients.The 28 patients receiving DEB-TACE+RFA and 74 HCC patients receiving DEB-TACE were recruited in this study. Treatment responses, progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) were evaluated.One to 3 months after treatments, the proportion of patients achieving complete response (CR) (78.6% vs 33.8%, P <.001) and objective response rate (ORR) (92.9% vs 78.4%, P =.010) were elevated in DEB-TACE+RFA group compared with DEB-TACE group. Multivariate logistic regression displayed that DEB-TACE+RFA was an independently predicting factor for better CR (P = .006). Subgroup analysis of CR achievement illuminated that DEB-TACE+RFA disclosed better CR achievement in patients with history of cirrhosis (P <.001), tumor located in right liver (P = .003), bilobar disease (P = .013), tumor size <3.3 cm (P = .001), no portal vein invasion (P = .001), no hepatic vein invasion (P <.001), Child-pugh stage A (P <.001), Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage 0, A-B (P <.001), abnormal alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) (P = .001) and normal AFP (P = .016). The PFSs were similar between 2 groups (P = .112), however, the OS was more prolonged in DEB-TACE+RFA group (P = .025) compared with DEB-TACE group. And subgroup analysis displayed that PFS of patients with largest nodule size >3.3 cm (P = .025) was longer and patients with unilobar disease (P = .009), and patients with no hepatic invasion (P = .019) and Child-pugh stage A (P = .037) had more favorable OS in DEB-TACE+RFA group compared with DEB-TACE group.DEB-TACE+RFA achieved better treatment responses and OS compared with DEB-TACE alone in Chinese HCC patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31261491	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31261491	Cirrhosis
Neuroreport	Impaired brain glucose metabolism in cirrhosis without overt hepatic encephalopathy: a retrospective 18F-FDG PET/CT study.	Patients with cirrhosis have characteristic patterns of brain glycometabolic impairment. F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET/computed tomography may serve as a preclinical biomarker for brain damage in cirrhosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31261240	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31261240	Cirrhosis
Contemporary clinical trials	Regenerate: Design of a pivotal, randomised, phase 3 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of obeticholic acid in patients with fibrosis due to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.	ClinicalTrials.gov with the identifier NCT02548351.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31260793	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31260793	Cirrhosis
Journal of gastroenterology and hepatology	Genetic and life-style risk factors for advanced liver disease among men and women.	Age, PNPLA3 haplotype and WHR increase the risk for development of severe liver disease. We found strong synergism between alcohol and central obesity. Binge drinking is an additional risk factor.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31260143	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31260143	Cirrhosis
Journal of inherited metabolic disease	Chronic Liver Involvement in Urea Cycle Disorders.	The increased survival of urea cycle disorders (UCDs) patients has led the attention to clinical manifestations that characterize the long-term disease course. Acute and chronic liver disease have been anecdotally reported since the very first description of UCDs. However a detailed analysis of long-term liver involvement in large patient cohorts is still needed. Chronic liver damage in UCDs has probably a multifactorial origin, but the specific underlying mechanisms of liver disease have not yet been well elucidated. In this study, we report on chronic liver involvement and on associated metabolic abnormalities in a large cohort of 102 UCD patients, followed by two reference centers in Italy. Chronic liver involvement was observed in over 60% of UCDs patients, and comparison between individual diseases showed a significant higher frequency in ASLD and in HHH syndrome with elevation of transaminases and of gamma-GT in ASLD, and of alpha-fetoprotein in HHH syndrome. Also, consistent with a chronic hepatic dysfunction, ultrasound examination revealed more pronounced abnormalities in ASLD and in HHH syndrome, when compared to other UCDs. Our study highlights in a large UCDs patients' cohort that chronic liver disease is a common finding in UCDs, often with a distinct phenotype between different diseases. Furthers studies are needed to elucidate the specific involvement of different metabolic pathways in the pathogenesis of liver dysfunction in UCDs. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31260111	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31260111	Cirrhosis
Therapeutic drug monitoring	Linezolid dosing in patients with liver cirrhosis: Standard dosing risks toxicity.	Linezolid showed a high clinical cure rate. Nevertheless, plasma concentrations and treatment discontinuation due to haematological toxicity were higher in cirrhotic patients. Liver cirrhosis may influence linezolid pharmacokinetics and question the use of standard doses.TDM of linezolid would be valuable in these patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31259884	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259884	Cirrhosis
Aging	Prognostic value of serum lactate kinetics in critically ill patients with cirrhosis and acute-on-chronic liver failure: a multicenter study.	Lactate clearance (Δ24Lac) was reported to be inversely associated with mortality in critically ill patients. The aim of our study was to assess the value of Δ24Lac for the prognosis of critically ill patients with cirrhosis and acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF). We analysed 954 cirrhotic patients with hyperlactatemia admitted to intensive care units (ICUs) in the United States and eastern China. The patients were followed up for at least 1 year. In the unadjusted model, we observed a 15% decrease in hospital mortality with each 10% increase in Δ24Lac. In the fully adjusted model, the relationship between the risk of death and Δ24Lac remained statistically significant (hospital mortality: odds ratio [OR] 0.84, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.78- 0.90, p < 0.001; 90-day mortality: hazard ratio [HR] 0.94, 95%CI 0.92- 0.97, p < 0.001; for Δ24Lac per 10% increase). Similar results were found in patients with ACLF. We developed a Δ24Lac-adjusted score (LiFe-Δ24Lac), which performed significantly better in the area under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUROCs) than the original LiFe score for predicting mortality. Lactate clearance is an independent predictor of death, and the LiFe-Δ24Lac score is a practical tool for stratifying the risk of death.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31259742	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259742	Cirrhosis
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	Eltrombopag enables initiation and completion of pegylated interferon/ribavirin therapy in Japanese HCV-infected patients with chronic liver disease and thrombocytopenia.	To investigate the efficacy of eltrombopag for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with chronic hepatitis C, a phase II, single-arm, open-label study with a 9-week pre-antiviral phase was conducted, followed by a 48-week antiviral phase and a 24-week follow-up phase. The proportion of patients who achieved a platelet count threshold, the proportion of patients who maintained a platelet count >50,000/µl, sustained virological response (SVR) rates and safety parameters were evaluated. Of the 45 enrolled patients (median age, 59 years; median platelet count, 63,000/µl; 98% with Child-Pugh class A), 43 (96%) achieved the platelet count threshold during the pre-antiviral phase. A total of 13 patients (29%) experienced ≥1 adverse event (AE), of which headache and vomiting were the most common, and 41 patients (mostly receiving eltrombopag 12.5 mg or 25 mg) entered the antiviral phase, of which 36 (88%) maintained the platelet count threshold; no patient platelet count decreased below 25,000/µl. Nine patients (22%) achieved an SVR at the 24-week follow-up. Grade ≥3 AEs occurred in 25 patients (61%). A total of 8 serious AEs occurred in five patients (12%). No mortality, thromboembolic events (TEEs), or cataract progression were reported. Eltrombopag increased the platelet count in chronic hepatitis C virus-infected patients with cirrhosis and thrombocytopenia and enabled them to initiate and complete interferon-based antiviral therapy (NCT01636778; first submitted: July 05, 2012).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31258695	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258695	Cirrhosis
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	Puerarin alleviates liver fibrosis via inhibition of the ERK1/2 signaling pathway in thioacetamide-induced hepatic fibrosis in rats.	Liver fibrosis is a complex pathological process and an early step in the progression of liver cirrhosis, which can eventually develop into hepatocellular carcinoma. Currently, there is no effective treatment for liver fibrosis. Puerarin is a traditional Chinese herb, which is commonly used in the treatment of various diseases. In addition, it is also believed to have a therapeutic effect in liver fibrosis. However, whether puerarin reduces liver fibrosis via the ERK1/2 signaling pathway to inhibit the activation of hepatic stellate cell (HSC) and excessive collagen deposition in liver fibrosis remains unknown. The aim of the current study was to establish a liver fibrosis 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31258646	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258646	Cirrhosis
Proceedings (Baylor University. Medical Center)	Unsuspected primary malignancy in the setting of elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein.	Hepatocellular carcinoma is the most common solid liver cancer and is screened for with serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in patients with chronic hepatitis or cirrhosis. However, other tumors can produce AFP, and one of these is the "hepatoid" adenocarcinoma, arising in extrahepatic sites. We present a patient with chronic hepatitis C, multiple liver tumors, and a marked elevation in AFP who was mistakenly thought to have hepatocellular carcinoma, but primary hepatoid adenocarcinoma arising at the gastroesophageal junction was discovered at autopsy.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31258434	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31258434	Cirrhosis
 	Human Brown Adipose Tissue Plasticity: Hormonal and Environmental Manipulation	Brown adipose tissue (BAT), brown-in-white (“brite”) and “beige” adipocytes share the unique ability of converting chemical energy into heat and play a critical role in the adaptive thermogenesis response promoting nonshivering thermogenesis. Uncoupling Protein-1 (UCP1), which allows the uncoupling of substrate oxidation from phosphorylation of ADP, represents the molecular signature of BAT and beige adipocytes. Until recently, the physiologic role of BAT and beige adipocytes depots was thought to be limited to small mammalians and newborns. The discovery of BAT in adult humans and the demonstration of the presence of inducible BAT activity in white adipose tissue by beige adipocytes have generated enthusiasm as potential targets for treatment of obesity and other disorders due to sustained positive energy balance. These findings are particularly important since in vitro studies have demonstrated that preadipocytes can be directed toward a common brown phenotype by multiple pathways that, in turn, may be exploited for therapeutic interventions. In adult humans, BAT activity is more evident in deep neck fat depots and, to a lesser degree, in subcutaneous adipose tissue, with a transcriptome signature resembling the rodent beige fat. This observation supports the hypothesis that human BAT activity and capacity can be modulated. To this end, we have directed our translational research program toward the characterization of beige fat in humans and on the effects of hormonal and environmental drivers in the adaptive thermogenesis response. Mild cold exposure, within the temperature range commonly employed in climate-controlled buildings, is sufficient to generate a significant increase in non-shivering thermogenesis driven by BAT and beige adipocyte activation. In turn, adaptive thermogenesis generates a specific hormonal signature and promotes glucose disposal. Chronic exposure to mild cold induces expansion of BAT mass and activity, whereas exposure to warm climate abrogates them. Additionally, the metabolic effects of BAT mass expansion are evident only upon stimulation of BAT activity, indicating that both expansion and activation of BAT are necessary and complementary strategies to pursue. From an experimental standpoint, human preadipocytes represent a viable experimental platform to mechanistically interrogate different pathways that are able to expand and activate browning. Our laboratory has focused on studying FGF-21, and FNDC5/irisin in their capacity to promote the browning process. Compared to a white differentiation medium, the addition of either FGF-21 or FNDC5 results in a reprogramming toward a brown phenotype, as indicated by the display of brown transcriptome signature and, functionally, by the increase in oxygen consumption following catecholamine treatment, indicating an increase in substrate utilization. Collectively, the integration of a detailed assessment of human physiology with mechanistic observations in cell culture systems can provide a unique opportunity to translate observations from experimental models to actionable therapeutic targets.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314462	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314462	obesity
 	Imaging of Diffuse and Inflammatory Liver Disease	The incidence of diffuse liver disease, including all causes, is increasing worldwide. On one side this is due to trends in population towards aging and obesity resulting in a higher prevalence of steatosis/steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. On the other side, inflammatory origin, especially due to viral hepatitis, is one of the primary reasons for diffuse liver disease. This chapter will describe the most common imaging features of hepatic metabolic and storage diseases, including overload with fat, iron, copper, and amyloid and diffuse neoplastic diseases. We also discuss focal and diffuse infectious and inflammatory hepatic diseases. Key imaging manifestations of fungal, granulomatous, parasitic, viral, and bacterial as well as the less common hepatic infections such as cat-scratch disease, bacillary angiomatosis, and amebic disease are reviewed to avoid pitfalls in image interpretation. Although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides unique capabilities for noninvasive and quantitative characterization of liver tissue that rival the diagnostic utility of liver biopsies, also characteristic imaging findings with computed tomography (CT) that are useful in daily clinical routine will be discussed.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314369	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314369	obesity
 	Preconception and Prenatal Factors and Metabolic Risk	The prenatal period is a critical developmental stage for obesity and metabolic outcomes. In light of the global obesity and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) epidemic and growing evidence of early life origins of obesity and diabetes, early identification of individuals at high risk and early prevention of obesity and metabolic syndrome are a key to achieve primary prevention and reverse the trends of the obesity and T2DM epidemics. This chapter will discuss the impact of important preconceptional and prenatal factors, including maternal obesity and/or diabetes, gestational weight gain, and maternal micronutrient status, on in utero and lifelong metabolic outcomes and the possible gene–environment interactions and epigenetic mechanisms underlying early life origins of metabolic risk. Finally, it will provide perspectives on current knowledge gaps and recommendations to advance the field.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314302	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314302	obesity
 	Life Course Research Agenda (LCRA), Version 1.0	Life course health science research is “connecting the dots” between child health development, adult patterns of premature morbidity and mortality, and more integrated notions of healthy aging. However, there are still many outstanding questions about the relationship between early experiences and lifelong health and well-being, as well as a growing need to understand how emerging knowledge can be applied to the development of evidence-based practice and policy that can reduce risks, minimize exposures, and optimize lifelong health. In 2010, the Maternal and Child Health Life Course Research Network (LCRN) initiated an inclusive research agenda-setting process that resulted in the Handbook of Life Course Health Development, which offers state-of-the-art reviews and analyses of life course health-development (LCHD) research focused on key life stages and a variety of health conditions, as well as recommendations pertaining to future research in these areas. In developing this concluding chapter and the research agenda it contains, we have attempted to synthesize the authors’ findings and recommendations in order to propose a more integrated set of research priorities and strategies that can advance the entire LCHD field. The resulting transdisciplinary research agenda focuses on foundational research, including research that addresses life course epidemiology, research that elucidates LCHD processes (e.g., sensitive periods, epigenetics), and research that identifies effective interventions, with a special emphasis on health disparities research and research on high priority conditions (e.g., obesity and mental health conditions) and specific vulnerable populations (e.g., children in foster care, premature infants, and children with medical complexity). It also considers essential research capacity-building activities focused on data, data systems, and methods, as well as strategies for building the human, technical, cultural, and financial capacity required to carry out this challenging work. Lastly, it addresses the importance of translational and intervention research that can speed the application of concepts and findings to the practice and policy arenas. We conclude with a discussion of advancing the overall LCHD research paradigm, including the framework and principles that have emerged from the research thus far and that are helping to define a robust explanatory and theoretical LCHD framework.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314297	obesity
 	Pediatric Type 2 Diabetes: Prevention and Treatment Through a Life Course Health Development Framework	Estimates project that one in three US adults may have diabetes in 2050. Until very recently, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) was a disease diagnosed in adults, but as the childhood obesity epidemic has spread, the diagnosis of T2DM in adolescents has become more common. Early indicators suggest that the disease may be more severe and more difficult to manage when diagnosed in adolescents. It is projected that adolescents with T2DM will lose approximately 15 years of life. The economic burden of T2DM rises significantly as the years with disease increase. This grim forecast highlights that not only will the disease burden be significant but the economic burden will be high. The risk for developing T2DM begins in utero. Individual health development trajectories build from this starting point, the result of multiple factors that accumulate across time and are the result of biological conditioning during sensitive developmental periods. A major aim of this chapter is to demonstrate that a life course health development approach to pediatric T2DM is critical to a sound national strategy to prevent and treat pediatric T2DM. We review major factors known to influence the development of pediatric T2DM and track these across childhood. While these factors will likely change over the next decade, what will not change is the importance of placing these factors into context and recognizing that T2DM development is highly sensitive to the timing and social structures of multiple environmental exposures. Research recommendations are discussed through a life course lens.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314290	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314290	obesity
 	Early in the Life Course: Time for Obesity Prevention	One of the reasons for the intractability of childhood obesity is the underappreciation of the complexity and interconnectedness of contributing factors across the life course. A multilevel approach for obesity prevention takes into account individual risk factors that operate “above water” (family, neighborhood, policies) and the interaction with biology and “underwater” influences (genetics, epigenetics, physiology) and recognizes that these factors also interact across the life course, starting before birth. We organize this chapter to reflect phases of life course health development, prenatally through adolescence, that appear to be most important for the development of obesity and present key examples to illustrate important risk factors, mechanisms, and gaps in research. One of the challenges to understanding influences on obesity risk is the extent to which associations described in observational studies are causal. We present alternative methodological approaches, including sibling-pair design, maternal versus paternal effects, Mendelian randomization, cohorts with different confounding structures, and randomized controlled trials, that can help disentangle causal associations. We conclude with recommendations for future work on methodology, research in emerging areas, and implications for practice and policy based on the current evidence.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314285	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314285	obesity
 	 	The world is faced with an epidemic of metabolic diseases such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. This is due to changes in dietary habits and the decrease in physical activity. Exercise is usually part of the prescription, the first line of defense, to prevent or treat metabolic disorders. However, we are still learning how and why exercise provides metabolic benefits in human health. This open access volume focuses on the cellular and molecular pathways that link exercise, muscle biology, hormones and metabolism. This will include novel “myokines” that might act as new therapeutic agents in the future. 	2019	eng	Review	 	31314235	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314235	obesity
 	 	This open access handbook synthesizes and analyzes the growing knowledge base on life course health development (LCHD) from the prenatal period through emerging adulthood, with implications for clinical practice and public health. It presents LCHD as an innovative field with a sound theoretical framework for understanding wellness and disease from a lifespan perspective, replacing previous medical, biopsychosocial, and early genomic models of health. Interdisciplinary chapters discuss major health concerns (diabetes, obesity), important less-studied conditions (hearing, kidney health), and large-scale issues (nutrition, adversity) from a lifespan viewpoint. In addition, chapters address methodological approaches and challenges by analyzing existing measures, studies, and surveys. The book concludes with the editors’ research agenda that proposes priorities for future LCHD research and its application to health care practice and health policy. Topics featured in the Handbook include: The prenatal period and its effect on child obesity and metabolic outcomes. Pregnancy complications and their effect on women’s cardiovascular health. A multi-level approach for obesity prevention in children. Application of the LCHD framework to autism spectrum disorder. Socioeconomic disadvantage and its influence on health development across the lifespan. The importance of nutrition to optimal health development across the lifespan. The Handbook of Life Course Health Development is a must-have resource for researchers, clinicians/professionals, and graduate students in developmental psychology/science; maternal and child health; social work; health economics; educational policy and politics; and medical law as well as many interrelated subdisciplines in psychology, medicine, public health, mental health, education, social welfare, economics, sociology, and law.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314220	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314220	obesity
 	 	As America's most populous state goes, so goes the nation. And within that state, the 38 counties comprising South Texas--a highly populated, largely Hispanic area characterized by high uninsured rates and low numbers of health care providers--are emblematic of nationwide crises in public health. The South Texas Health Status Review: A Health Disparities Roadmap brings health care disparities to light in instructive detail. Over thirty key health conditions and risk factors, such as breast cancer, diabetes, obesity, tuberculosis, smoking and alcohol use, lead exposure, birth defects, and homicide rates, are analyzed by age, sex, race/ethnicity, and location (urban or rural), and the results compared with the rest of Texas and the nation as a whole. A section on conclusions and recommendations outlines factors contributing to these conditions and offers suggestions for improvement. These important data should stimulate further population studies and provide impetus for targeted public health interventions and community outreach programs to reduce health inequities and advance care access in the state and the U.S. at large. Major health issues covered in the report include: • Communicable diseases • Cancer incidence and mortality • Maternal and child health • Chronic diseases • Behavioral risk factors in adults • Environmental health issues • Suicide, homicide, and vehicular mortality. The South Texas Health Status Review contains valuable lessons for researchers in health promotion and health disparities, as well as community health professionals. Policymakers involved in reducing health disparities will find it especially useful.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314218	obesity
Neuropsychopharmacology : official publication of the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology	Striatal volume and functional connectivity correlate with weight gain in early-phase psychosis.	Second-generation antipsychotic drugs (SGAs) are essential in the treatment of psychotic disorders, but are well-known for inducing substantial weight gain and obesity. Critically, weight gain may reduce life expectancy for up to 20-30 years in patients with psychotic disorders, and prognostic biomarkers are generally lacking. Even though other receptors are also implicated, the dorsal striatum, rich in dopamine D2 receptors, which are antagonized by antipsychotic medications, plays a key role in the human reward system and in appetite regulation, suggesting that altered dopamine activity in the striatal reward circuitry may be responsible for increased food craving and the resultant weight gain. Here, we measured striatal volume and striatal resting-state functional connectivity at baseline, and weight gain over the course of 12 weeks of antipsychotic treatment in 81 patients with early-phase psychosis. We also included a sample of 58 healthy controls. Weight measurements were completed at baseline, and then weekly for 4 weeks, and every 2 weeks until week 12. We used linear mixed models to compute individual weight gain trajectories. Striatal volume and whole-brain striatal connectivity were then calculated for each subject, and used to assess the relationship between striatal structure and function and individual weight gain in multiple regression models. Patients had similar baseline weights and body mass indices (BMI) compared with healthy controls. There was no evidence that prior drug exposure or duration of untreated psychosis correlated with baseline BMI. Higher left putamen volume and lower sensory motor connectivity correlated with the magnitude of weight gain in patients, and these effects multiplied when the structure-function interaction was considered in an additional exploratory analysis. In conclusion, these results provide evidence for a correlation of striatal structure and function with antipsychotic-induced weight gain. Lower striatal connectivity was associated with more weight gain, and this relationship was stronger for higher compared with lower left putamen volumes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31315130	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315130	obesity
Obesity facts	Altruistic Behavior Depending on Opponents' Body Weight: An Experimental Approach.	Although numerous studies reported discrimination toward people with obesity in several areas of life, we did not find discrimination in form of less altruistic behavior toward people with obesity. Moreover, although we found implicit antifat attitudes among the participants, these attitudes did not predict altruistic behavior toward people of divergent weight groups. Therefore, future research should investigate more intensively the diverse facets of discrimination toward people with obesity, if and to what extent implicit antifat attitudes have a quantifiable impact on the stigmatization and or discrimination process, and the hypotheses in a more hidden way, since manipulation check revealed that the majority of participants anticipated the underlying idea of the dictator game.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31315118	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315118	obesity
Obesity facts	Overweight and Lonely? A Representative Study on Loneliness in Obese People and Its Determinants.	Obesity is associated with physical and medical restrictions and comorbidities, but it also entails psychosocial effects such as social isolation and feelings of rejection. The aim of this study was to investigate the link between loneliness and weight stigma in a large sample of obese individuals. Results were derived from a large representative sample (n = 1,000). The survey included the 3-item version of the UCLA loneliness scale, the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) as well as the Weight Bias Internalization scale (WBIS). The mean UCLA score was 1.943 (SD = 0.771). Respondents with higher levels of depression (B = 0.176), higher internalized weight bias (B = 0.435), and the experience of discrimination (B = 0.286) reported higher levels of loneliness. Future studies should investigate the mediation pathways between obesity, loneliness, and its determinants to provide a framework for successful interventions as part of obesity management programs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31315116	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315116	obesity
Pharmacological research	Citrus aurantium L. var. amara Engl. inhibited lipid accumulation in 3T3-L1 cells and Caenorhabditis elegans and prevented obesity in high-fat diet-fed mice.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31315066	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315066	obesity
Cell reports	Functional Inactivation of Mast Cells Enhances Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Browning in Mice.	Adipose tissue browning and systemic energy expenditure provide a defense mechanism against obesity and associated metabolic diseases. In high-cholesterol Western diet-fed mice, mast cell (MC) inactivation ameliorates obesity and insulin resistance and improves the metabolic rate, but a direct role of adipose tissue MCs in thermogenesis and browning remains unproven. Here, we report that adrenoceptor agonist norepinephrine-stimulated metabolic rate and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) browning are enhanced in MC-deficient Kit	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315055	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315055	obesity
Cell reports	A Receptor of the Immunoglobulin Superfamily Regulates Adaptive Thermogenesis.	Exquisite regulation of energy homeostasis protects from nutrient deprivation but causes metabolic dysfunction upon nutrient excess. In human and murine adipose tissue, the accumulation of ligands of the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) accompanies obesity, implicating this receptor in energy metabolism. Here, we demonstrate that mice bearing global- or adipocyte-specific deletion of Ager, the gene encoding RAGE, display superior metabolic recovery after fasting, a cold challenge, or high-fat feeding. The RAGE-dependent mechanisms were traced to suppression of protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation of its key targets, hormone-sensitive lipase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, upon β-adrenergic receptor stimulation-processes that dampen the expression and activity of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) and thermogenic programs. This work identifies the innate role of RAGE as a key node in the immunometabolic networks that control responses to nutrient supply and cold challenges, and it unveils opportunities to harness energy expenditure in environmental and metabolic stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315054	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315054	obesity
Cell reports	The Lateral Hypothalamic and BNST GABAergic Projections to the Anterior Ventrolateral Periaqueductal Gray Regulate Feeding.	Overeating is a serious issue in modern society, causing many health problems, including obesity. Although the hypothalamus has been previously identified as the key brain structure that regulates body weight homeostasis, the downstream pathways and non-canonical neural circuitry involved in feeding behavior remain largely uncharacterized. Here, we discover that suppressing the activity of GABAergic cells in the anterior ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG), whether directly or through long-projection GABAergic inputs from either the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) or the lateral hypothalamus (LH), is sufficient to promptly induce feeding behavior in well-fed mice. In contrast, optogenetic activation of these cells interrupts food intake in starved mice. Long-term chemogenetic manipulation of vlPAG GABAergic cell activity elicits a corresponding change in mouse body weight. Our studies reveal distinct midbrain GABAergic pathways and highlight an important role of GABAergic cells in the anterior vlPAG in feeding behavior.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315042	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315042	obesity
Sao Paulo medical journal = Revista paulista de medicina	Association between consumption of ultra-processed foods and serum C-reactive protein levels: cross-sectional results from the ELSA-Brasil study.	Our findings suggest that the positive association of ultra-processed food consumption with CRP levels among women seems to be mediated by the presence of adiposity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314878	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314878	obesity
PloS one	Age at gonadectomy and risk of overweight/obesity and orthopedic injury in a cohort of Golden Retrievers.	This study presents prospectively acquired data demonstrating that gonadectomy is a risk factor for both overweight/obesity and chronic non-traumatic orthopedic injuries in a prospective cohort of Golden Retrievers. Our data suggest that gonadectomy at any age is a risk factor for overweight or obesity, but delaying gonadectomy until dogs are at least 6-12 months of age may help to decrease the risk for orthopedic injury.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314808	obesity
Eating disorders	Bingeing, Purging, and Suicidal Ideation in Clinical and Non-Clinical Samples of Youth.	Suicidal ideation is a serious mental health concern reported by adolescents. Despite understanding of increased suicidal ideation in patients with eating disorders (EDs) and obesity, few studies have compared how disordered eating (bingeing, vomiting and over exercising) is associated with suicidal ideation in clinical and non-clinical samples of youth across the ED and weight spectrum. The present study aimed to 1) comparatively examine rates of suicidal ideation and disordered eating behaviors in clinical samples of youth with EDs, complex obesity, or from the community, and 2) examine whether disordered eating was associated with suicidal ideation above and beyond age, body mass index, diagnosis, treatment-seeking status, and depressive symptoms in large samples of males vs. females in an attempt to understand whether these behaviors should lead to concern regarding suicidal ideation. Data from charts on treatment-seeking adolescents diagnosed with either an ED (N = 315), severe complex obesity (N = 212), and from the community (N = 3036) were pooled together for comparative purposes. Results showed that suicidal ideation was higher in youth seeking treatment for an ED (50.2%) and obesity (23.7%) as compared to youth from the community (13%). Binary logistic regression analyses revealed that vomiting (OR = 1.73 for females, 8.17 for males) and over-exercising (OR = 1.47 for females, 1.68 for males) was significantly associated with suicidal ideation in both males and females. Findings underscore the importance of screening for suicidal ideation in youth who report vomiting or over-exercising despite diagnostic presentation, age, weight, or treatment setting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314685	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314685	obesity
American journal of physiology. Regulatory, integrative and comparative physiology	Unsilencing of native leptin receptors (LepR) in hypothalamic SF1 neurons does not rescue obese phenotype in LepR-deficient mice.	Leptin receptor (LepR) signaling in neurons of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH), specifically those expressing steroidogenic factor-1 (SF1), have been proposed to play a key role in controlling energy balance. By crossing LepR-silenced (LepR	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314542	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314542	obesity
Internal medicine journal	Incident Atrial Fibrillation in Patients Undergoing Bariatric Surgery: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.	The overall estimated incidence of AF following bariatric surgery was 5.3%. Our study demonstrates a significant beneficial association between bariatric surgery and AF, with a 0.42-fold decreased risk of AF. Future large-scale studies are needed to confirm the potential benefits of bariatric surgery on risk of AF. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31314166	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314166	obesity
Health reports	Comparison of self-reported and accelerometer-measured physical activity among Canadian youth.	Population-level estimates of physical activity and the percentage of youth meeting the physical activity guideline were well-aligned between the Actical and the PAYQ; however, large differences were evident at the individual level. Therefore, caution should be exercised in using data from these two methods since their values may not be interchangeable.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31314124	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314124	obesity
JAMA surgery	Factors Associated With Lymphedema in Women With Node-Positive Breast Cancer Treated With Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy and Axillary Dissection.	In this study, longer NAC duration and obesity were associated with increased lymphedema incidence, suggesting that patients in these groups may benefit from enhanced prospective lymphedema surveillance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314062	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314062	obesity
Acta biochimica et biophysica Sinica	Exposure to jet lag aggravates depression-like behaviors and age-related phenotypes in rats subject to chronic corticosterone.	Our previous finding demonstrated that chronic corticosterone (CORT) may be involved in mediating the pathophysiology of premature aging in rats. Frequent jet lag increases the risk for many diseases, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, and is associated with the aging processes. However, the effect of jet lag on CORT-induced depression and its association with aging phenotypes remain unclear. In this study, the rats were exposed to both CORT and jet lag treatment, and the differences were analyzed and compared to rats with single CORT treatment. Our results showed that jet lag treatment aggravated CORT-induced depression-like behavior evidenced by sucrose intake test, forced swimming test, and open field test. Additionally, this treatment aggravated the shortening of telomeres, which possibly resulted in decreased telomerase activity, and downregulated the expression of telomere-binding factor 2 (TRF2) and telomerase reverse transcriptase compared to that in CORT rats, as revealed by quantitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis, respectively. The shortening of telomeres may have been caused by increased oxidative stress, which was associated with the inhibition of sirtuin 3. Exposure to jet lag also aggravated the degeneration of mitochondrial functions, as shown by the decreases in the mRNA expression of COX1, ND1, and Tfam. Our findings provide physiological evidence that jet lag exposure may worsen stress-induced depression and age-related abnormalities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31314053	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314053	obesity
Omics : a journal of integrative biology	Next-Generation (Glycomic) Biomarkers for Cardiometabolic Health: A Community-Based Study of Immunoglobulin G 	Cardiovascular disease is a common complex trait that calls for next-generation biomarkers for precision diagnostics and therapeutics. The most common type of post-translational protein modification involves glycosylation. Glycans participate in key intercellular and intracellular functions, such as protein quality control, cell adhesion, cell-cell recognition, signal transduction, cell proliferation, and cell differentiation. In this context, immunoglobulin G (IgG) 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313980	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313980	obesity
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	A Clinical, Biochemical Profile of Type-2 Diabetes in Women with Special Reference to Vitamin-D Status in Obese and Non-Obese.	Almost all diabetic females were with Waist circumference > 80 cm and Waist-Hip ratio > 0.8. Most of the diabetic patients have poor control of diabetes. Vitamin-D deficiency is found in almost all diabetic female patients (92.5%) and the most probable cause is poor glycemic control and obesity according to this study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31313545	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313545	obesity
Birth defects research	Smoking and pregnancy: Epigenetics and developmental origins of the metabolic syndrome.	Maternal smoking causes lower birth weight, birth defects, and other adverse pregnancy outcomes. Epidemiological evidence over the past four decades has grown stronger and the adverse outcomes attributed to maternal smoking and secondhand smoke exposure have expanded. This review presents findings of latent and persistent metabolic effects in offspring of smoking mothers like those observed in studies of maternal undernutrition during pregnancy. The phenotype of offspring of smoking mothers is like that associated with maternal undernutrition. Born smaller than offspring of nonsmokers, these children have increased risk of being overweight or obese later. Plausible mechanisms include in utero hypoxia, nicotine-induced reductions in uteroplacental blood flow, placental toxicity, or toxic growth restriction from the many toxicants in tobacco smoke. Studies have reported increased risk of insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes and hypertension although the evidence here is weaker than for overweight/obesity. Altered DNA methylation has been consistently documented in smoking mothers' offspring, and these epigenetic alterations are extensive and postnatally durable. A causal link between altered DNA methylation and the phenotypic changes observed in offspring remains to be firmly established, yet the association is strong, and mediation analyses suggest a causal link. Studies examining expression patterns of affected genes during childhood development and associated health outcomes should be instructive in this regard. The adverse effects of exposure to tobacco smoke during pregnancy now clearly include permanent metabolic derangements in offspring that can adversely affect life-long health.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31313499	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313499	obesity
American journal of medical genetics. Part A	Impact of genetic subtypes of Prader-Willi syndrome with growth hormone therapy on intelligence and body mass index.	Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a genomic imprinting disorder characterized by infantile hypotonia with a poor suck and failure to thrive, hypogenitalism/hypogonadism, behavior and cognitive problems, hormone deficiencies, hyperphagia, and obesity. The Stanford Binet and Wechsler (WAIS-R; WISC-III) intelligence (IQ) tests were administered on 103 individuals with PWS from two separate cohorts [University of California, Irvine (UCI) (N = 56) and Vanderbilt University (N = 47)] and clinical information obtained including growth hormone (GH) treatment, PWS molecular classes, weight and height. Significantly higher IQ scores (p < .02) were found representing the vocabulary section of the Stanford Binet test in the growth hormone (GH) treated group when compared with non-GH treatment in the pediatric-based UCI PWS cohort with a trend for stabilization of vocabulary IQ scores with age in the GH treated maternal disomy (UPD) 15 subject group. Significant differences (p = .05) were also found in the adult-based Vanderbilt PWS cohort with 15q11-q13 deletion subjects having lower Verbal IQ scores compared with UPD 15. No difference in body mass index was identified based on the PWS molecular class or genetic subtype. Medical care and response to treatment with growth hormone may influence intelligence impacted by PWS genetic subtypes and possibly age, but more studies are needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313492	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313492	obesity
Eating and weight disorders : EWD	The moderating effects of mindful eating on the relationship between emotional functioning and eating styles in overweight and obese women.	Level V, descriptive study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313253	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313253	obesity
Journal of endocrinological investigation	The treatment with pasireotide in Cushing's disease: effect of long-term treatment on clinical picture and metabolic profile and management of adverse events in the experience of a single center.	The current study on a limited series of patients contributes to confirm that pasireotide may be considered a valid option for treatment of patients with CD, although it requires an appropriate management of adverse events, especially hyperglycaemia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31313243	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313243	obesity
World journal of pediatrics : WJP	Prevention and treatment of childhood and adolescent obesity: a systematic review of meta-analyses.	Synthesis of interventional or observational evidence may yield discrepant results. The combination of enhanced physical activity and improved nutrition emerged as a promising intervention in the fight against childhood/adolescent obesity. However, further research is needed about the most effective multidimensional prevention strategy.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31313240	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313240	obesity
Obesity surgery	Conversion from Prediabetes to Diabetes in Individuals with Obesity, 5-Years Post-Band, Sleeve, and Gastric Bypass Surgeries.	Our findings emphasize the importance of preoperative glycemic control and weight loss during the first year postoperatively, for the long-term prevention of diabetes in patients with prediabetes undergoing metabolic surgery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313239	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313239	obesity
Obesity surgery	Impact of Exercise on Body Composition and Cardiometabolic Risk Factors in Patients Awaiting Bariatric Surgery.	The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03613766).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313237	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313237	obesity
Journal of general internal medicine	Understanding Primary Care Patients' Self-weighing Habits: Cohort Analysis from the PaTH Clinical Data Research Network.	Despite its potential for primary and secondary obesity prevention, only 35% of primary care patients with overweight or obesity engage in self-weighing weekly and less than a quarter (23%) self-weigh daily. Socioeconomic status appears to be a factor influencing regular self-weighing in this population, potentially contributing to greater health disparities in obesity rates. Patients who self-weighed daily had a lower BMI, suggesting that it may play a role in primary prevention of obesity. More work is needed to explore self-weighing among patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313111	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313111	obesity
Digestive diseases and sciences	Liver Transplantation for Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis: Pathophysiology of Recurrence and Clinical Challenges.	Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is the fastest-growing indication for the liver transplant and a leading cause of hepatocellular carcinoma among patients listed for liver transplantation in the USA. Post-transplant nonalcoholic hepatic steatosis and steatohepatitis are frequent complications of liver transplantation. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis poses a significant challenge in both pre- and post-transplant period due to its association with metabolic syndrome, coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease, and obstructive sleep apnea. While optimal therapy is not yet available in the post-liver transplant setting, lifestyle interventions continue to remain as the mainstay of therapy for post-transplant nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Early recognition with protocol biopsies and noninvasive modalities, along with modification of known risk factors, are the most effective methods to curtail the progression of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in the absence of FDA-approved pharmacologic therapy.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31312990	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312990	obesity
European journal of nutrition	Modified apple polysaccharide regulates microbial dysbiosis to suppress high-fat diet-induced obesity in C57BL/6J mice.	MAP could reduce HFD-induced obesity of mice effectively. The possible mechanisms are that MAP restored HFD-induced intestinal microbiota disorder, downregulated the number of T cells and macrophages in adipose tissue.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312904	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312904	obesity
Rheumatology international	Diet in osteoarthritis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312886	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312886	obesity
Food & function	Mulberry leaves ameliorate obesity through enhancing brown adipose tissue activity and modulating gut microbiota.	The increased prevalence of obesity significantly affects human health worldwide. Improvement of glycometabolism by dietotherapy/herbal remedy is an effective approach to ameliorate obesity. In this study, high-fat-diet induced obese (DIO) mice were treated with mulberry leaves for 13 weeks. The results showed that mulberry leaves significantly alleviated adiposity of DIO mice including reducing body weight gain, fat accumulation and fasting blood glucose, and improving insulin sensitivity. In addition, mulberry leaves had protective effects on liver and kidneys. The abundant flavonoids, polyphenols and 1-deoxynojirimycin in mulberry leaves were likely responsible for their beneficial effects. Mechanistically, we found that mulberry leaves could alleviate obesity by enhancing brown adipose tissue (BAT) activity partly indicated by elevated thermogenesis and overexpression of uncoupling protein 1 in BAT. Moreover, mulberry leaves significantly increased the Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes ratio and Akkermansia level that were closely associated with obesity development and progression, and decreased the potential proinflammatory Proteobacteria in feces. These findings reveal that the mulberry leaf is an edible plant food with therapeutic potential for obesity and may provide dietotherapy/herbal remedy to the treatment of obesity and its complications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312821	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312821	obesity
Health equity	Racial/Ethnic Differences in Cardiometabolic Risk in a Community Sample of Sexual Minority Women.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312782	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312782	obesity
Journal of preventive medicine and hygiene	Assessment of oral hygiene trends among dental patients in relation to chronic medical conditions by dental students. A cross-sectional study.	There is scarcity of data regarding dental healthcare knowledge and attitudes in dental clinical settings. Additional clinical training for dental students would increase their willingness to play a preventive and educational role in the oral care of patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31312740	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312740	obesity
BioMed research international	Prepregnancy Obesity, Maternal Dietary Intake, and Oxidative Stress Biomarkers in the Fetomaternal Unit.	Prepregnancy obesity is associated with a decrease in GPx4 expression in the placenta, which is related to OS in the newborn. The influence of micronutrient intake on OS biomarkers highlights the importance of nutritional assessment during pregnancy and adequate prenatal care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312657	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312657	obesity
BioMed research international	Pathogenic Effects and Potential Regulatory Mechanisms of Tea Polyphenols on Obesity.	Overweight and obesity are major threats to human health. Tea polyphenols exert multiple beneficial effects on human health and may play a positive regulatory role in fat assumption. However, how tea polyphenols contribute to the regulation of fat metabolism remains unclear to date. Small RNA expression profile can be regulated by tea polyphenols in adipocytes. Therefore, tea polyphenols may regulate fat metabolism by controlling small RNA-associated biological processes. In this study, we developed a systematic research platform based on mouse models and performed small RNA sequencing to identify the specific role of small RNAs in the regulatory effect of tea polyphenols on fat metabolism. We compared the expression levels of different small RNA subtypes, including piRNAs and miRNAs, and identified a group of differentially expressed small RNAs in the experimental and control groups. Most of these small RNAs participate in lipid metabolism, suggesting that small RNAs play a significant role in tea polyphenol-associated obesity and related pathogenesis. Furthermore, gene ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment indicated that small RNAs influence the regulatory effects of tea polyphenols on obesity, revealing the potential pathogenic mechanisms for such nutritional disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312655	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312655	obesity
BioMed research international	None	The positive regulatory domain containing 16 (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312653	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312653	obesity
Preventive medicine reports	Community food environment moderates association between health care provider advice to lose weight and eating behaviors.	Patients who receive weight loss advice from a health care provider (HCP) are more likely to eat healthy. The food environment affects eating behaviors. This study explored how the community food environment may moderate the relationship between HCP advice to lose weight and eating behaviors. Data were obtained from a household telephone survey in 4 New Jersey cities from two cross-sectional panels (2009-10 and 2014). Analyses were limited to 1427 overweight and obese participants. Self-reports assessed frequency of consumption of fruits, vegetables, sugar sweetened beverages, and fast food. Community food data were purchased from InfoUSA and Nielsen and classified according to previously established protocol. Stratified gamma regression analysis determined the differences in the association between receiving weight loss advice and eating behaviors stratified by community food environment. Stratified analyses revealed that receiving advice to lose weight from a HCP was associated with lower reported consumption of total sugar-sweetened beverages, soda, and sweetened fruit drinks when participants lived near a small grocery store, or far from a supermarket, limited service restaurant, or convenience store. There were no associations between receiving weight loss advice and sugar sweetened beverage consumption when participants lived near supermarkets, limited service restaurants, or convenience stores. There were no associations with fruit, vegetable, salad or fast-food consumption, regardless of the community food environment. Food environment may play a critical role in moderating the association between HCP advice and eating behaviors. Interventions that enhance the community food environment may help convert HCP advice into improved eating behaviors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312593	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312593	obesity
Annals of medicine and surgery (2012)	Laparoscopy-assisted transgastric endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography for choledocholithiasis after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass: A case report.	Transgastric laparoscopy-assisted ERCP is a feasible procedure with low complication rates and is used in treating patients with altered RYGB anatomy who present with biliary tract disorders. The use of transgastric laparoscopy-assisted ERCP allows endoscopic treatment and cholecystectomy to be performed in a single setting.	2019	eng	Case Reports	England	31312443	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312443	obesity
Nutrition & metabolism	Ccr7 null mice are protected against diet-induced obesity via Ucp1 upregulation and enhanced energy expenditure.	In Ccr7 null mice, browning of white adipocytes as well as the activation of brown adipocytes cause enhanced energy metabolism, resulting in protection against diet-induced obesity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312229	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312229	obesity
Evidence-based complementary and alternative medicine : eCAM	Effects of Royal Jelly Administration on Lipid Profile, Satiety, Inflammation, and Antioxidant Capacity in Asymptomatic Overweight Adults.	Compared with the placebo, RJ supplementation demonstrated a statistically significant decrease in total cholesterol (6.7%; 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312222	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312222	obesity
Jornal vascular brasileiro	HDL-C and non-HDL-C levels are associated with anthropometric and biochemical parameters.	Nossos resultados mostram que tanto o HDL-c quanto o não HDL-c estão associados a resistência à insulina, dislipidemia, índices de aterogênese e obesidade. Assim, há uma necessidade de futuros ensaios randomizados de intervenção clínica examinando o papel potencial do não HDL-c como possível alvo terapêutico primário.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31312214	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312214	obesity
Frontiers in endocrinology	Leukocyte Mitochondrial DNA Copy Number and Risk of Thyroid Cancer: A Two-Stage Case-Control Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312182	obesity
Frontiers in psychology	Smoking Status, Body Mass Index, Health-Related Quality of Life, and Acceptance of Life With Illness in Stable Outpatients With COPD.	Smoking and obesity are important factors related to the etiology and clinical features of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The aim of this study was to carry out deeper analyses of the links between smoking status and body mass index as well as of the links between individual dimensions of health-related quality of life (QoL) and acceptance of life with disease in patients with COPD. Information about BMI, smoking status, clinical features of COPD, a COPD assessment test, and airflow obstruction indicators were obtained from 105 outpatients attending a pulmonary clinic. Analysis of covariance demonstrated that the subgroups of patients distinguished based on smoking status and BMI differed significantly in severity of Cough, Dyspnea, Limitation of daily activities, Lack of self-confidence, and Quality of sleep, independently of sociodemographic factors and clinical features of COPD. The results of our study suggest a certain path of the potential effects of obesity and smoking status on QoL. Risky health behaviors, such as smoking and at-risk body mass, only affect some aspects of health-related QoL.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312165	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312165	obesity
Journal of inflammation (London, England)	Deficiency of fibroblast growth factor 21 aggravates obesity-induced atrophic responses in skeletal muscle.	These findings suggest that FGF21 deficiency aggravates obesity-induced inflammation and atrophic responses in the skeletal muscle of obese mice, and FGF21 may protect inflammation-mediated atrophy through the AMPK pathway.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312114	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312114	obesity
Scientific reports	Identifying chemopreventive agents for obesity-associated cancers using an efficient, 3D high-throughput transformation assay.	Obesity is associated with ~40% of cancer diagnoses but there are currently no effective preventive strategies, illustrating a need for chemoprevention. We previously demonstrated that fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) from adipose tissue stimulates malignant transformation, as measured by growth in soft agar, the gold-standard in vitro transformation assay. Because the soft agar assay is unsuitable for high throughput screens (HTS), we developed a novel method using 3D growth in ultra-low attachment conditions as an alternative to growth in agar to discover compounds that inhibit transformation. Treating non-tumorigenic, skin epithelial JB6 P	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311976	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311976	obesity
DNA repair	Roles of OGG1 in transcriptional regulation and maintenance of metabolic homeostasis.	Cellular damage produced by conditions generating oxidative stress have far-reaching implications in human disease that encompass, but are not restricted to aging, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, airway inflammation/asthma, cancer, and metabolic syndrome including visceral obesity, insulin resistance, fatty liver disease, and dyslipidemia. Although there are numerous sources and cellular targets of oxidative stress, this review will highlight literature that has investigated downstream consequences of oxidatively-induced DNA damage in both nuclear and mitochondrial genomes. The presence of such damage can in turn, directly and indirectly modulate cellular transcriptional and repair responses to such stressors. As such, the persistence of base damage can serve as a key regulator in coordinated gene-response cascades. Conversely, repair of these DNA lesions serves as both a suppressor of mutagenesis and by inference carcinogenesis, and as a signal for the cessation of ongoing oxidative stress. A key enzyme in all these processes is 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1), which, via non-catalytic binding to oxidatively-induced DNA damage in promoter regions, serves as a nucleation site around which changes in large-scale regulation of inflammation-associated gene expression can occur. Further, the catalytic function of OGG1 can alter the three-dimensional structure of specialized DNA sequences, leading to changes in transcriptional profiles. This review will concentrate on adverse deleterious health effects that are associated with both the diminution of OGG1 activity via population-specific polymorphic variants and the complete loss of OGG1 in murine models. This mouse model displays diet- and age-related induction of metabolic syndrome, highlighting a key role for OGG1 in protecting against these phenotypes. Conversely, recent investigations using murine models having enhanced global expression of a mitochondrial-targeted OGG1 demonstrate that they are highly resistant to diet-induced disease. These data suggest strategies through which therapeutic interventions could be designed for reducing or limiting adverse human health consequences to these ubiquitous stressors.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31311771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311771	obesity
Surgery for obesity and related diseases : official journal of the American Society for Bariatric Surgery	Changes in bone mineral density and bone metabolism after sleeve gastrectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	The present study found a decreased BMD among patients with obesity after SG.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311755	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311755	obesity
Journal of the American Society of Echocardiography : official publication of the American Society of Echocardiography	Changes in Left Ventricular Mass and Geometry in the Older Adults: Role of Body Mass and Central Obesity.	Regardless of race/ethnicity, LV mass progressed over time in older adults. We also observed that worsening geometry was frequent. Assessment of central obesity in the older population is important because indicators of central obesity add prognostic value over body mass index for the risk of LV mass increase.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311705	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311705	obesity
The British journal of nutrition	Proteomics study the effect of high-fat diet on rat liver.	Excessive intake of high-energy diets is an important cause of most obesity. The intervention of rats with high-fat diet can replicate the ideal animal model for studying the occurrence of human nutritional obesity. The proteomics and bioinformatics analysis can help us to systematically and comprehensively study the effect of high-fat diet on rat liver. In this study, 4056 proteins were identified in rat liver by using tandem mass tag. A total of 198 proteins were significantly changed, of which 103 were significantly up-regulated and 95 were significantly down-regulated. These significant differentially expressed proteins are primarily involved in lipid metabolism and glucose metabolism processes. The intake of a high-fat diet forces the body to maintain physiological balance by regulating these key protein spots to inhibit fatty acid synthesis, promote fatty acid oxidation, and accelerate fatty acid degradation. This study enriches our understanding of metabolic disorders induced by high-fat diets at the protein level.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311615	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311615	obesity
Lipids in health and disease	Effects of weight change on apolipoprotein B-containing emerging atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk factors.	Emerging apo B-containing risk factors show associations with weight change beyond those explained by the more traditional triglyceride and LDL-cholesterol measurements.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311555	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311555	obesity
Gut microbes	Gut microbiota composition explains more variance in the host cardiometabolic risk than genetic ancestry.	Cardiometabolic affections greatly contribute to the global burden of disease. The susceptibility to obesity, cardiovascular disease, and type-2 diabetes, conditions that add to the cardiometabolic syndrome (CMS), was associated with the ancestral genetic composition and gut microbiota. Studies explicitly testing associations between genetic ancestry and gut microbes are growing. We here examined whether the host genetic ancestry was associated with gut microbiota composition, and distinguished the effects of genetic ancestry and non-genetic factors on human cardiometabolic health. We performed a cross-sectional study with 441 community-dwelling Colombian mestizos from five cities spanning the Andes, Pacific, and Caribbean coasts. We characterized the host genetic ancestry by genotyping 40 ancestry informative markers; characterized gut microbiota through 16S rRNA gene sequencing; assessed diet intake, physical activity, cigarette, and medicament consumption; and measured cardiometabolic outcomes that allowed calculating a CMS risk scale. On average, each individual of our cohort was 67 ± 6% European, 21 ± 5% Native American and 12 ± 5% African. Multivariable-adjusted generalized linear models showed that individuals with higher Native American and African ancestries had increased fasting insulin, body mass index and CMS risk, as assessed by the CMS risk scale. Furthermore, we identified 21 OTUs associated to the host genetic ancestry and 20 to cardiometabolic health. While we highlight novel associations between genetic ancestry and gut microbiota, we found that the effect of intestinal microbes was more likely to explain the variance in CMS risk scale than the contributions of European, Native American and African genetic backgrounds.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311405	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311405	obesity
Adipocyte	Insulin-induced lipid body accumulation is accompanied by lipid remodelling in model mast cells.	Mast cell lipid bodies are key to initiation, maintenance and resolution of inflammatory responses in tissue. Mast cell lines, primary bone marrow-derived mast cells and peripheral blood basophils present a 'steatotic' phenotype in response to chronic insulin exposure, where cells become loaded with lipid bodies. Here we show this state is associated with reduced histamine release, but increased capacity to release bioactive lipids. We describe the overall lipid phenotype of mast cells in this insulin-induced steatotic state and the consequences for critical cellular lipid classes involved in stages of inflammation. We show significant insulin-induced shifts in specific lipid classes, especially arachidonic acid derivatives, MUFA and PUFA, the EPA/DHA ratio, and in cardiolipins, especially those conjugated to certain DHA and EPAs. Functionally, insulin exposure markedly alters the FcεRI-induced release of Series 4 leukotriene LTC4, Series 2 prostaglandin PGD2, Resolvin-D1, Resolvin-D2 and Resolvin-1, reflecting the expanded precursor pools and impact on both the pro-inflammation and pro-resolution bioactive lipids that are released during mast cell activation. Chronic hyperinsulinemia is a feature of obesity and progression to Type 2 Diabetes, these data suggest that mast cell release of key lipid mediators is altered in patients with metabolic syndrome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311389	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311389	obesity
Current medical research and opinion	Bipolar depression: the clinical characteristics and unmet needs of a complex disorder.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311335	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311335	obesity
Annals of rehabilitation medicine	Comparison of Obesity Related Index and Exercise Capacity Between Center-Based and Home-Based Cardiac Rehabilitation Programs.	Both groups identified in the study showed significant improvement of VO2max and METs at 1-month and 6-month follow-up. However, there was no significant difference in the intergroup analysis. A significant improvement of FFMI was seen only in the center-based CR group after phase II CR.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31311251	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311251	obesity
Nutrients	Exercise Alleviates Cognitive Functions by Enhancing Hippocampal Insulin Signaling and Neuroplasticity in High-Fat Diet-Induced Obesity.	Obesity, caused by a high-fat diet (HFD), leads to insulin resistance, which is a precursor of diabetes and a risk factor for impaired cognitive function, dementia, and brain diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease. Physical exercise has positive effects on obesity and brain functions. We investigated whether the decline in cognitive function caused by a HFD could be improved through exercise by examining insulin signaling pathways and neuroplasticity in the hippocampus. Four-week-old C57BL/6 male mice were fed a HFD or a regular diet for 20 weeks, followed by 12 weeks of treadmill exercise. To ascertain the effects of treadmill exercise on impaired cognitive function caused by obesity, the present study implemented behavioral testing (Morris water maze, step-down). Moreover, insulin-signaling and neuroplasticity were measured in the hippocampus and dentate gyrus. Our results demonstrated that HFD-fed obesity-induced insulin resistance was improved by exercise. In addition, the HFD group showed a decrease in insulin signaling and neuroplasticity in the hippocampus and the dentate gyrus and increased cognitive function impairment, which were reversed by physical exercise. Overall, our findings indicate that physical exercise may act as a non-pharmacologic method that protects against cognitive dysfunction caused by obesity by improving hippocampal insulin signaling and neuroplasticity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311133	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311133	obesity
Nutrients	The Preventive Effects of Greenshell Mussel (	The prevalence of osteoarthritis (OA) is rising worldwide, with the most pronounced increase being in the category of metabolic-associated osteoarthritis (MetOA). This is predicted to worsen with the global rise in aging societies and obesity. To address this health burden, research is being conducted to identify foods that can reduce the incidence or severity of MetOA. Oil from the Greenshell mussel (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311115	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311115	obesity
International journal of environmental research and public health	The Association between Bisphenol A Exposure and Obesity in Children-A Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis.	Bisphenol A (BPA) is an environmental chemical that has adverse effects on health, probably causing childhood obesity. However, this association remains controversial, and it is difficult to find evidence for direct causality between environmental exposure and disease using epidemiological studies. In this study, we sought to elucidate the possible causality between BPA exposure and childhood obesity by conducting two meta-analyses showing bidirectional associations, including exposure effect by obesity and obesity risk by exposure. Articles published up to September 2017 were searched in PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Library. We evaluated observational studies that included measurements of urinary BPA concentration and BMI or body weight. Of 436 articles, a total of 13 studies were included in the meta-analysis. Two meta-analyses were performed to investigate the association between BPA exposure and childhood obesity. The results showed that the relatively high-exposed group had a significantly higher risk of childhood obesity than the relatively low-exposed group (odds ratio = 1.566, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.097 to 2.234, 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31311074	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311074	obesity
 	Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: The Overlooked Complication of Type 2 Diabetes	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common complication of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Most times it is an unrecognized comorbidity to the primary care provider and endocrinologist. Today it is the most common chronic liver disease in developed countries. It is characterized by insulin resistance and hepatic triglyceride accumulation in the absence of co-existing etiologies, such as excessive alcohol consumption, viral hepatitis, medications or other etiologies for hepatic steatosis. Its more severe form of the disease with steatohepatitis (NASH) is associated with hepatocyte injury (necrosis and inflammation) and frequently with fibrosis. Although it appears to be an indolent condition, with few symptoms and often normal plasma aminotransferases, NASH is a leading cause of end-stage liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and significantly increases the risk of developing cardiovascular disease (CVD) and T2DM. The pathogenesis of NASH remains poorly understood, and likely to be multifactorial, but insulin-resistant adipose tissue plays an important role. The natural history of NAFLD is incompletely understood, but risk factors for disease progression include weight gain, obesity and T2DM, as well as the severity of fibrosis stage at diagnosis. Diagnostic algorithms are evolving but we offer an approach that integrates for the non-hepatologist plasma biomarkers, imaging, and the role of liver biopsy for the management of these complex patients. At the present time, early screening -with biomarker panels or a liver ultrasound, ideally with transient elastography- is reserved for high-risk patients (i.e., obese patients with T2DM or elevated plasma AST/ALT levels or evidence of steatosis at a random liver exam) until more accurate non-invasive methods are available. A liver biopsy should be considered on a case-by-case basis, to identify those at risk of NASH-cirrhosis, working in close collaboration with a hepatologist. Treatment should include a comprehensive approach with lifestyle modification and therapeutic agents tested in RCTs, such as vitamin E (in patients without diabetes) or pioglitazone for patients with or without diabetes. Pioglitazone, given its low-cost as a generic medication, long-standing track record of efficacy in NASH, and cardiometabolic benefits, is likely to be for NASH what metformin has become for the management of T2DM. However, proper patient selection and close monitoring is needed. In addition, a number of new pharmacological agents are being studied in phase II/III trials and future management will involve the use of combination therapy, as for other chronic metabolic conditions. In summary, endocrinologists need to be aware of the severe metabolic and liver-specific complications of NASH and establish early-on a long-term management plan. Screening will likely take place in the same way as for diabetic retinopathy or nephropathy. A better understanding of its natural history and pathogenesis of NASH, combined with improved diagnostic and treatment options, will likely place endocrinologists at the forefront of the management efforts to prevent end-stage liver disease in patients with NASH. For complete coverage of all related areas of Endocrinology, please visit our on-line FREE web-text, WWW.ENDOTEXT.ORG.	2019	eng	Review	 	31310460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310460	obesity
Gesundheitswesen (Bundesverband der Arzte des Offentlichen Gesundheitsdienstes (Germany))	[Teacher-Based Health Promotion in Primary School Children in Baden-Württemberg: Effects on Endurance Performance and Incidence of Abdominal Obesity].	Kinder sollten von klein auf lernen, gesunde Entscheidungen zu treffen. Mit der Prävention abdominaler Adipositas als Indikator zeichnet sich diese Intervention als effektive Gesundheitsförderung aus.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31311060	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311060	obesity
Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift (1946)	[Optimization of Digestion - How Nutrition and Microbiome Affect Each Other].	Nutrition affects intestinal bacteria by stimulating the expansion of bacteria that can metabolize the nutrient components offered. Conversely, gut bacteria help to optimize food digestion and increase energy intake. Thus, the intestinal microbiome is regulated primarily by nourishment: it determines the composition, function and diversity of the microbiome. As a result, the intestinal microbiome helps to optimize energy and substrate production from food. This is beneficial in cases of imminent malnutrition, but can be detrimental in case of overeating and obesity.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31311043	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311043	obesity
Urologia internationalis	Does Body Mass Index Impact the Outcomes of Ultrasound-Guided Percutaneous Nephrolithotomy?	Obesity does not increase the incidence of complications in ultrasound-guided PCNL, and the efficacy of the technique for obese patients is similar to that for normal weight patients. The lateral decubitus position was preferred in patients with higher BMI.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311024	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311024	obesity
The Journal of endocrinology	Assessment of mouse liver [1-13C]pyruvate metabolism by dynamic hyperpolarized MRS.	Hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy has the unique ability to detect real-time metabolic changes in vivo owing to its high sensitivity compared with thermal MR and high specificity compared with other metabolic imaging methods. The aim of this study was to explore the potential of hyperpolarized MR spectroscopy for quantification of liver pyruvate metabolism during a hyperinsulinemic isoglycemic clamp in mice. Hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate was used for in vivo MR spectroscopy of liver pyruvate metabolism in mice. Mice were divided into two groups: i) non-stimulated 5-hour fasted mice and ii) hyperinsulinemic isoglycemic clamped mice. During clamp conditions, insulin and donor blood were administered at a constant rate whereas glucose were infused to maintain isoglycemia. When steady state was reached, insulin-stimulated mice were rapidly infused with hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate for real-time tracking of the dynamic distribution of metabolic derivatives from pyruvate, such as [1-13C]lactate, [1-13C]alanine, and [13C]bicarbonate. Isotopomer analysis of plasma glucose confirmed 13C-incorporation from [1-13C]pyruvate into glucose was increased in fasted mice compared with insulin-stimulated mice, demonstrating an increased gluconeogenesis in fasted mice. The AUC ratios for [1-13C]alanine/[1-13C]pyruvate (38.2%), [1-13C]lactate/[1-13C]pyruvate (41.8%), and [13C]bicarbonate/[1-13C]pyruvate (169%) all increased significantly during insulin stimulation. Hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate can be used for in vivo MR spectroscopy of liver pyruvate metabolism during hyperinsulinemic isoglycemic clamp conditions. Under these conditions, insulin decreased gluconeogenesis and increased [1-13C]alanine, [1-13C]lactate, and [13C]bicarbonate after a [1-13C]pyruvate bolus. This application of in vivo spectroscopy has the potential to identify impairments in specific metabolic pathways in the liver associated with obesity, insulin resistance, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311004	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311004	obesity
Journal of physical activity & health	Estimated Physical Activity in Adolescents by Wrist-Worn GENEActiv Accelerometers.	Interventions to increase PA in adolescents may benefit from focusing on increasing weekend PA and increasing MVPA in girls.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310994	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310994	obesity
Journal of physical activity & health	Effect of Breaks in Prolonged Sitting or Low-Volume High-Intensity Interval Exercise on Markers of Metabolic Syndrome in Adults With Excess Body Fat: A Crossover Trial.	Adults with excess body fat present lower glucose and diastolic BP during a day with breaks in sitting time compared with a prolonged sitting day with or without an LV-HIIE session.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310990	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310990	obesity
Nutrition (Burbank, Los Angeles County, Calif.)	Antiobesity effects of anthocyanins on mitochondrial biogenesis, inflammation, and oxidative stress: A systematic review.	Studies have shown that anthocyanins attenuate obesity. In this review, we confirm these effects and explain the possible mechanisms underlying them. A systematic search was conducted in electronic databases using obesity as the main term along with anthocyanins and the main anthocyanidins, including articles in Portuguese, English, and Spanish without any restriction as to year. The review was carried out by peers following PRISMA recommendations: 1980 studies were identified, and 19 articles were analyzed. The studies varied in relation to time, pathways, cells used, and anthocyanin types. The positive effects were observed in 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase pathways and mitochondrial biogenesis and in a reduction in inflammation and oxidative stress. Anthocyanins can improve the metabolic control involved in obesity by reducing lipogenesis, oxidative stress, and inflammation. This can boost the speed of lipolysis and thermogenesis, regulate satiety, and reduce body fat accumulation. In addition, anthocyanins have shown promising effects on controlling obesity compared with the standard of care.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31310961	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310961	obesity
Journal of affective disorders	Body mass index weight categories in adults who died by suicide: An observational study.	These findings add to our understanding of the relationship between suicide and weight. A higher prevalence of females as well as those with a history of cancer and any medical condition in underweight decedents was noteworthy and of potential clinical significance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310907	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310907	obesity
NeuroImage	Development and body mass inversely affect children's brain activation in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during food choice.	Childhood obesity is a rising problem caused in part by unhealthy food choices. Food choices are based on a neural value signal encoded in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and self-control involves modulation of this signal by the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC). We determined the effects of development, body mass (BMI Cole score) and body mass history on the neural correlates of healthy food choice in children. 141 children (aged 10-17y) from Germany, Hungary and Sweden were scanned with fMRI while performing a food choice task. Afterwards health and taste ratings of the foods were collected. In the food choice task children were asked to consider the healthiness or tastiness of the food or to choose naturally. Overall, children made healthier choices when asked to consider healthiness. However, children who had a higher weight gain per year chose less healthy foods when considering healthiness but not when choosing naturally. Pubertal development stage correlated positively while current body mass correlated negatively with dlPFC activation when accepting foods. Pubertal development negatively and current body mass positively influenced the effect of considering healthiness on activation of brain areas involved in salience and motivation. In conclusion, children in earlier stages of pubertal development and children with a higher body weight exhibited less activation in the dlPFC, which has been implicated in self-control during food choice. Furthermore, pubertal development and body mass influenced neural responses to a health cue in areas involved in salience and motivation. Thus, these findings suggest that children in earlier stages of pubertal development, children with a higher body mass gain and children with overweight may possibly be less susceptible to healthy eating interventions that rely on self-control or that highlight health aspects of food.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310861	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310861	obesity
Appetite	Exploration of associations between the FTO rs9939609 genotype, fasting and postprandial appetite-related hormones and perceived appetite in healthy men and women.	Associations between the FTO rs9939609 genotype and fasting or postprandial appetite-related outcomes were weak in healthy men and women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310836	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310836	obesity
Biochemical pharmacology	Breast Cancer: Occluded Role of Mitochondria N-acetylserotonin/Melatonin Ratio in Co-ordinating Pathophysiology.	A plethora of factors contribute to the biochemical underpinnings of breast cancer, in the absence of any clear, integrative framework. This article proposes that melatonergic pathway regulation within mitochondria provides an integrative framework for the wide array of data driving breast cancer pathophysiology. As melatonin is toxic to breast cancer cells, its production within mitochondria poses a significant challenge to breast cancer cell survival. Consequently, the diverse plasticity in breast cancer cells may arise from a requirement to decrease mitochondria melatonin synthesis. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor role in breast cancer pathophysiology may be mediated by an increase in cytochrome P450 (CYP)1b1 in mitochondria, leading to the backward conversion of melatonin to N-acetylserotonin (NAS). NAS has distinct effects to melatonin, including its activation of the tyrosine receptor kinase B (TrkB) receptor. TrkB activation significantly contributes to breast cancer cell survival and migration. However, the most important aspect of NAS induction by CYP1b1 in breast cancer cells is the prevention of melatonin effects in mitochondria. Many of the changes occurring in breast cancer cells arise from the need to regulate this pathway in mitochondria, allowing this to provide a framework that integrates a host of previously disparate data, including: microRNAs, estrogen, 14-3-3 proteins, sirtuins, glycolysis, oxidative phosphorylation, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase and the kynurenine pathways. It is also proposed that this framework provides a pathoetiological model incorporating the early developmental regulation of the gut microbiome that integrates breast cancer risk factors, including obesity. This has significant treatment, prevention and research implications.	2019	eng	Review	England	31310736	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310736	obesity
Molecular pharmaceutics	Half-Life Extending Modifications of Peptide YY3-36 Direct Receptor-Mediated Internalization.	Peptide YY3-36 (PYY3-36) is an endogenous ligand of the neuropeptide Y2 receptor (Y2R), on which it acts to reduce food intake. Chemically modified PYY3-36 analogs with extended half-lives are potential therapeutics for the treatment of obesity. Here we show that the common half-life extending strategies PEGylation and lipidation not only control PYY3-36's pharmacokinetics but also affects central aspects of its pharmacodynamics. PEGylation of PYY3-36 inhibited endocytosis by increasing receptor dissociation rates (koff), which reduced arrestin-3 (Arr3) activity. This is the first link between Arr3 recruitment and Y2R residence time. C16-lipidation of PYY3-36 had negligible impact on Y2R signaling, binding, and endocytosis. In contrast, C18acid-lipidation minimized endocytosis, which indicated a decreased internalization through non-arrestin-related mechanisms. We propose a temporal model that connects properties and position of the half-life extender with receptor Gi versus Arr3 signaling bias. We believe that this will be important for future design of peptide therapeutics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310716	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310716	obesity
PloS one	Clinical indicators and coronary angiographic features of expansive arterial remodelling in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms.	The co-existence of expansive arterial remodelling in both coronary arteries (CAs) and the abdominal aorta has already been reported, although the clinical indicators and quantitative analysis have not been well studied. We therefore aimed to clarify the clinical and anatomical characteristics of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). 123 AAA patients who underwent coronary angiography were compared to 123 control patients selected by propensity score matching. CA diameters of all 3 vessels were measured by quantitative coronary angiographic analysis. Coronary artery ectasia (CAE) was defined as local or generalized aneurysmal change of the CAs. Excessive expansive CA remodelling was defined as the maximal diameter of the right or left circumflex artery in the upper 75th percentile (>4.8 mm). Multivariable logistic regression analyses were used to determine predictors of CAE and excessive expansive CA remodelling. The prevalences of CAE and excessive expansive CA remodelling were significantly higher in the AAA group than in the non-AAA group (28% vs. 8% and 31% vs. 19%; both p<0.05). On multivariable analysis, the presence of AAA (odds ratio (OR), 4.56; 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) 2.18-10.4) and body mass index (BMI) (OR, 1.11; 95%CI 1.03-1.21) were independently associated with CAE, and higher high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (OR, 2.19; 95%CI 1.08-4.52) and BMI (OR, 1.11; 95%CI 1.02-1.21) were independently associated with excessive expansive CA remodelling. In conclusions, this study showed a higher prevalence of ectatic CA disease in AAA patients and suggests that higher inflammation and obesity are associated with expansive arterial remodelling in coronary arteries.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310617	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310617	obesity
American journal of physiology. Endocrinology and metabolism	Overproduction of endothelin-1 impairs glucose tolerance but does not promote visceral adipose tissue inflammation or limit metabolic adaptations to exercise.	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is a potent vasoconstrictor and proinflammatory peptide that is upregulated in obesity. Herein, we tested the hypothesis that ET-1 signaling promotes visceral adipose tissue (AT) inflammation and disrupts glucose homeostasis. We also tested if reduced ET-1 is a required mechanism by which exercise ameliorates AT inflammation and improves glycemic control in obesity. We found that (i) diet-induced obesity, AT inflammation, and glycemic dysregulation were not accompanied by significant increased levels of ET-1 in AT or circulation in wild-type mice; and that endothelial overexpression of ET-1 and consequent increased ET-1 levels did not cause AT inflammation yet impaired glucose tolerance; (ii) reduced AT inflammation and improved glucose tolerance with voluntary wheel running was not associated with decreased levels of ET-1 in AT or circulation in obese mice, nor did endothelial overexpression of ET-1 impede such exercise-induced metabolic adaptations; (iii) chronic pharmacological blockade of ET-1 receptors did not suppress AT inflammation in obese mice but improved glucose tolerance; and (iv) in a cohort of human subjects with a wide range of BMI, ET-1 levels in AT or circulation were not correlated with markers of inflammation in AT. In aggregate, we conclude that ET-1 signaling is not implicated in the development of visceral AT inflammation but promotes glucose intolerance, thus representing an important therapeutic target for glycemic dysregulation in conditions characterized by hyperendothelinemia. Furthermore, we show that the salutary effects of exercise on AT and systemic metabolic function are not contingent on the suppression of ET-1 signaling.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310581	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310581	obesity
Health economics	Roommate effects in health outcomes.	We use randomized roommate assignment in dormitories in a college in Kolkata in India to examine peer effects in weight gains among roommates. We use administrative data on weight, height, and test scores of students at the time of college admission and then survey these students at the end of their first and second years in college. We do not find any significant roommate specific peer effect in weight gain. Our results rather suggest that an obese roommate reduces the probability that the other roommates become obese in subsequent years. We examine potential mechanism using survey data on students' eating habits, smoking, exercise, and sleeping patterns. We find that obese roommates sleep longer, which in turn improves the sleep pattern of others, which might explain the weak negative effect of obese roommates on the weight of others in the same room.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310423	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310423	obesity
The breast journal	The impact of bariatric surgery on qualitative and quantitative breast density.	Increased VBD, decreased FGV, and decreased total breast volume were seen following bariatric surgery-induced weight loss. There was no difference in qualitative breast density, highlighting the discrepancy between BI-RADS and VolparaDensity™ measurements. Further investigation will be required to determine how differential changes in components of breast density may affect breast cancer risk.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310402	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310402	obesity
Clinical transplantation	Prednisone-Free Maintenance Immunosuppression in Obese Kidney Transplant Recipients.	Obese transplant recipients (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31310030	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310030	obesity
Current vascular pharmacology	Postprandial Hypertriglyceridaemia Revisited in the Era of Non-Fasting Lipid Profile Testing: A 2019 Expert Panel Statement, Narrative Review	Postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia, defined as an increase in plasma triglyceride-containing lipoproteins following a fat meal, is a potential risk predictor of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and other chronic diseases. Several non-modifiable factors (genetics, age, sex and menopausal status) and lifestyle factors (diet, physical activity, smoking status, obesity, alcohol and medication use) may influence postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia. This narrative review considers the studies published over the last decade that evaluated postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia. Additionally, the genetic determinants of postprandial plasma triglyceride levels, the types of meals for studying postprandial triglyceride response, and underlying conditions (e.g. familial dyslipidaemias, diabetes mellitus, metabolic syndrome, non-alcoholic fatty liver and chronic kidney disease) that are associated with postprandial hypertriglyceridaemia are reviewed; therapeutic aspects are also considered.	2019	eng	Review	United Arab Emirates	31309820	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309820	obesity
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	 Targeting Glycemic Level in Gestational Diabetes Mellitus to that of Normal Pregnancy would result in a better Maternal-Fetal Outcome.	Women with a history of Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM) are at increased risk of future diabetes and related Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) as are their offspring. "Transgenerational transmission occurs". Independent of genetic risk, offspring of hyperglycaemic pregnancies are at increased risk of early onset type 2 diabetes mellitus (Type 2 DM) and obesity. Differences exist in offspring risk of diabetes and obesity based on time and type of diabetes exposure in utero. There is a risk gradient, wherein type 2 DM exposure confers greater risk and reduces time to development of type 2 DM in the offspring compared with exposure to GDM and no diabetes exposure. These data suggest, glucose dose dependence in risk transmission. Given that the age of onset of prediabetes and type 2 DM is declining many reproductive age women may have undiagnosed diabetes or dysglycaemia when they become pregnant. This has great public health significance and it has become imperative that all pregnant women should be screened for hyperglycemia even if they have no symptoms. Ministry of Health, Government of India has developed the national guidelines for testing, diagnosis and management of hyperglycemia in pregnancy. These guidelines recommend early testing at booking, to be repeated again between 24-28 weeks if negative at first testing. The guideline also recommends that GDM can be diagnosed if the 2 hr PG is ≥140mg/dl after 75 gm of oral glucose administration without regard to the time of the last meal (i.e., fasting or non-fasting). This approach has also been endorsed by International Diabetes Federation (IDF), World Health Organization (WHO) and International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) for resource constrained settings.The aim should be to target new born baby's birth weight, appropriate for gestational age (2.5 to 3.5 kg) to prevent the offspring developing NCD in the future. For this to happen early diagnosis and tight maternal glucose control during pregnancy similar to glycaemic level in the normal pregnancy, (FPG between 80 and 90 mg, 2 hr. post prandial between 110 and 120 mg) is necessary.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31309801	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309801	obesity
Journal of thrombosis and haemostasis : JTH	Prevalence of postpartum venous thromboembolism risk factors in an Irish urban obstetric population.	This study demonstrates the high prevalence of VTE risk factors among postpartum women. Postpartum VTE risk is highly individualized and complex. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309719	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309719	obesity
Colorectal disease : the official journal of the Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and Ireland	Robotic staplerless natural orifice sigmoidectomy in morbid obesity with mesentery splitting.	In recent years, minimally invasive surgery (MIS) has rapidly developed in general surgery, resulting in a revolution of surgical approaches. The primary justification for natural orifice specimen extraction surgery (NOSES) is to avoid larger abdominal incisions for specimen extraction. In a study, Kang et al. [1] compared specimen extraction by mini-laparotomy versus transanal extraction in robotic rectal cancer surgery, and their results demonstrated that the latter extraction route was associated with improved outcomes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Letter	England	31309689	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309689	obesity
Pediatric blood & cancer	Childhood cancer survivors report preferring lifestyle interventions delivered in person rather than online: An adolescent and parent perspective.	Adolescents who have had cancer in childhood have a preference for face-to-face contact with health professionals to overcome the barriers to participation in a lifestyle intervention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309668	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309668	obesity
The Cochrane database of systematic reviews	Lifestyle changes for treating psoriasis.	Dietary intervention may reduce the severity of psoriasis (low-quality evidence) and probably improves quality of life and reduces BMI (moderate-quality evidence) in obese people when compared with usual care, while combined dietary intervention and exercise programme probably improves psoriasis severity and BMI when compared with information only (moderate-quality evidence). None of the trials measured quality of life.We did not detect a clear difference in treatment adherence between those in the combined dietary intervention and exercise programme group and those given information only (moderate-quality evidence). Adherence may be improved through dietary intervention compared with usual care (low-quality evidence). Participants generally adhered well to the lifestyle interventions assessed in the review.No trials assessed the time to relapse. Trial limitations included unblinded participants and high dropout rate.Future trials should reduce dropouts and include comprehensive outcome measures; they should examine whether dietary intervention with or without an exercise programme is effective in non-obese people with psoriasis, whether an additional exercise programme is more effective than dietary intervention alone, whether the time to relapse prolongs in people who receive dietary intervention with or without exercise programme, and whether smoking cessation and alcohol abstinence are effective in treating psoriasis.	2019	eng	Review	England	31309536	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309536	obesity
Obesity surgery	A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of the Effect of Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass on Barrett's Esophagus.	RYGB leads to significant improvement of BE at > 1 year after surgery in terms of regression and resolution of the associated GERD. Both ssBE and lsBE improve after RYGB significantly.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31309524	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309524	obesity
Obesity surgery	Weight Loss and Changes in Adipose Tissue and Skeletal Muscle Volume after Laparoscopic Sleeve Gastrectomy and Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass: a Prospective Study with 12-Month Follow-Up.	Postoperatively, there was higher net loss of SAT but higher relative loss of VAT with weight loss. SM was lost only during the first three months. MRI provides accurate evaluation of surgeries' effect on individual patients' tissue composition. This can benefit risk assessment for related cardiovascular and metabolic health but cost-related factors will likely reserve the used methods for research.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309523	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309523	obesity
Journal of nuclear cardiology : official publication of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology	Severe myocardial ischemia in a patient with diabetes mellitus and left bundle branch block.	We present the case of a 69-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus, left bundle branch block, and obesity who develops cardiogenic shock after undergoing myocardial perfusion imaging and diagnostic left heart catheterization, but prior to coronary revascularization. This case highlights the risk of cardiac decompensation awaiting surgery in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease. It also emphasizes the subtleties involved in imaging patients with diabetes mellitus and left bundle branch block, as well as the risk of developing complete heart block in the setting of ischemia with underlying conduction disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309462	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309462	obesity
Diabetologia	The proposed systemic thermogenic metabolites succinate and 12,13-diHOME are inversely associated with adiposity and related metabolic traits: evidence from a large human cross-sectional study.	Our findings tentatively suggest that plasma succinate and 12,13-diHOME may play a role in the regulation of energy metabolism and brown adipose tissue activation in humans. Further studies encompassing direct assessment of brown adipose tissue activity and dietary supplementation are necessary to investigate the potential beneficial effects of these metabolites on systemic metabolism.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309263	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309263	obesity
Diabetologia	Antioxidants protect against diabetes by improving glucose homeostasis in mouse models of inducible insulin resistance and obesity.	We conclude that fat mass reduction through insulin resistance in adipocytes is not reversible. Furthermore, it seems unlikely that adipocytes undergo apoptosis during the process of extreme lipolysis, as a consequence of insulin resistance. Antioxidants have a beneficial health effect not only during the acute phase of diabetes development, but also in a temporary fashion once chronic obesity and diabetes have been established.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309261	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309261	obesity
The Journal of nutrition	Unhealthy Snack Food and Beverage Consumption Is Associated with Lower Dietary Adequacy and Length-for-Age z-Scores among 12-23-Month-Olds in Kathmandu Valley, Nepal.	In this LMIC context, high USFB consumption among young children was associated with inadequate micronutrient intakes, which can contribute to poor growth outcomes. Addressing increased availability of USFBs in LMIC food systems should be a priority for policies and programs aiming to safeguard child nutrition.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309223	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309223	obesity
Cell stress	The role of epigenetics in hypothalamic energy balance control: implications for obesity.	Despite enormous social and scientific efforts, obesity rates continue to increase worldwide. While genetic factors contribute to obesity development, genetics alone cannot explain the current epidemic. Obesity is essentially the consequence of complex genetic-environmental interactions. Evidence suggests that contemporary lifestyles trigger epigenetic changes, which can dysregulate energy balance and thus contribute to obesity. The hypothalamus plays a pivotal role in the regulation of body weight, through a sophisticated network of neuronal systems. Alterations in the activity of these neuronal pathways have been implicated in the pathophysiology of obesity. Here, we review the current knowledge on the central control of energy balance with a focus on recent studies linking epigenetic mechanisms in the hypothalamus to the development of obesity and metabolic disorders.	2019	eng	Review	Austria	31309172	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309172	obesity
BioMed research international	A Comparative Analysis of Biosynthetic Gene Clusters in Lean and Obese Humans.	Obesity is intrinsically linked with the gut microbiome, and studies have identified several obesity-associated microbes. The microbe-microbe interactions can alter the composition of the microbial community and influence host health by producing secondary metabolites (SMs). However, the contribution of these SMs in the prevention and treatment of obesity has been largely ignored. We identified several SM-encoding biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) from the metagenomic data of lean and obese individuals and found significant association between some BGCs, including those that produce hitherto unknown SM, and obesity. In addition, the mean abundance of BGCs was positively correlated with obesity, consistent with the lower taxonomic diversity in the gut microbiota of obese individuals. By comparing the BGCs of known SM between obese and nonobese samples, we found that menaquinone produced by 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309109	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309109	obesity
Cureus	Demographic and Clinical Characteristics of 4556 Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Patients at a Tertiary Care Hospital in Southern Punjab.	Objective The objective of this study was to analyze the demographic profile of type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) patients presenting to a tertiary care hospital of Southern Punjab, Pakistan. Methods This descriptive study was carried out at the Diabetic Outdoor Nishtar Hospital Multan from 2013 to 2018 after taking approval from the Institutional Ethical Review Committee. All patients were evaluated in detail after obtaining informed consent. Results Data of 4,556 patients with type 2 DM were analyzed. There were 2549 (55.9%) female and 2007 (44.1%) male participants in our study. The mean age of our study population was 47.72 years with a standard deviation (SD) of 10.82 years. Seventy-nine percent of the patients belonged to urban areas. Symptoms of polyuria, polydipsia, and polyphagia were found in 72%, 67%, and 59% of patients, respectively. Hypertension was found in 3391 (74%) patients. The mean waist circumference (WC) was 102.85 cm with an SD of 18.14 cm. The mean waist to hip ratio (WHR) was 1.02 with an SD of 0.102. The mean body mass index (BMI) was 26.50 with an SD of 5.57 kg/m	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309017	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309017	obesity
International journal of hypertension	Predictors of Hypertension among Adult Female Population in Kpone-Katamanso District, Ghana.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308975	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308975	obesity
Psychology research and behavior management	Relation of personality factors and life events to waist/height ratio and percentage of visceral fat in women and men.	Significant associations between live events, personality traits, and body anthropometric measures were recognized. The differences were recognized between women and men. Outcomes propose some promising tools by which personality factors may influence overweight and obesity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308771	obesity
Clinical, cosmetic and investigational dentistry	Oral health in patients with Prader-Willi syndrome: current perspectives.	Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a rare complex multisystem disorder and presents several aspects related to dentistry. The purpose of this review is to present current perspectives about oral health in patients with PWS. Delay development, hyperphagia, foamy and highly viscous saliva raise the risk of caries and contribute to tooth wear. Cariogenic foods uncontrolled consumption allows to obesity and dental problems progress worsening systemic disorders. These factors can be controlled. The success in follow-ups with caries free and oral health controlled demonstrate the importance of multidisciplinary team intervention corroborated by support at home from birth to adulthood. Thereby, current perspective on the disease is that there is possibility of proper maintenance of oral health in PWS patients. Guided care interferes positively with the overall well-being and quality of life of the individual with PWS and their family. A multidisciplinary team with a focus on teaching patients and family members will help minimize eventual problems.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308759	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308759	obesity
International journal of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease	Predictors in routine practice of 6-min walking distance and oxygen desaturation in patients with COPD: impact of comorbidities.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308646	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308646	obesity
Drug design, development and therapy	The protective effect and mechanism of the FXR agonist obeticholic acid via targeting gut microbiota in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308634	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308634	obesity
Nutrition & diabetes	Development of a delayed-release nutrient for appetite control in adults with obesity and type 2 diabetes and initial clinical testing in a single dose randomized controlled trial.	We conclude that nutrient can be formulated using all-natural ingredients to induce a delayed rise in GLP-1. Further testing is needed to determine the amount and site of nutrient release, when maximum GLP-1 levels occur, and if modification of the formulation specifications and dose are associated with appetite and glucose control.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308360	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308360	obesity
The Journal of pharmacology and experimental therapeutics	Effect of Pregnancy on paroxetine-induced adiposity and glucose intolerance in mice.	Long term use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) targeting the serotonin transporter (SERT) has been suggested to be associated with an increased risk for obesity and type 2 diabetes. Previously, using a murine knockout model of SERT, we showed that estrogen suppression is involved in SERT deficiency-induced obesity and glucose intolerance in non-pregnant mice. The present study investigated the effects of chronic paroxetine treatment on adiposity and glucose tolerance in mice before and during pregnancy. Chronic paroxetine treatment in non-pregnant mice resulted in visceral adiposity and glucose intolerance accompanied by reduced circulating 17β-estradiol levels and ovarian expression of the aromatase (Cyp19a1). Remarkably, pregnancy significantly reduced adiposity and improved glucose tolerance in paroxetine-treated mice by rebooting ovarian Cyp19a1 expression and 17β-estradiol production. These effects appear to be reversible as ovarian Cyp19a1 expression and circulating 17β-estradiol returned to pre-pregnancy levels soon following parturition. Similar to pregnant mice, 17β-estradiol replacement treatment in non-pregnant mice reduced paroxetine-induced adiposity. Our findings further suggested that modulation of estrogen synthesis underlies the observed metabolic adverse effects of SSRIs. Although our data revealed a transit reversal effect of pregnancy on SSRI-induced metabolic abnormalities, these observations are experimental and limited to mice. The use of SSRIs during human pregnancy should be cautioned due to potential adverse effects to the fetuses. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: N/A.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31308195	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308195	obesity
Disease models & mechanisms	Mild maternal hyperglycemia in 	Alongside with the obesity epidemic the prevalence of maternal diabetes is rising worldwide and adverse effects on fetal development and metabolic disturbances in the offspring's later life have been described. To clarify if metabolic programming effects occur due to mild maternal hyperglycemia without confounding obesity, we investigated wild-type offspring of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308048	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308048	obesity
Obesity research & clinical practice	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease does not predict worse perioperative outcomes in bariatric surgery.	NAFLD patients had lower mortality and complication rates following BS. A significant postsurgical weight loss should attenuate liver inflammation and fibrosis, and therefore has the potential to stop or even reverse progression of liver disease.	2019	eng	Letter	Netherlands	31307925	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307925	obesity
Canadian journal of diabetes	Effectiveness of Genistein Supplementation on Metabolic Factors and Antioxidant Status in Postmenopausal Women With Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus.	Genistein administration improved FBS, A1C, serum TG, TAC and MDA in postmenopausal women with T2DM and may be useful in the control of metabolic status and oxidative stress in these subjects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31307913	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307913	obesity
Journal of pediatric nursing	NASA Mission X program for healthy eating and active living among Taiwanese elementary school students.	This randomized controlled trial showed that the NASA MX program was feasible and acceptable among children in Taiwan, and improved children's HEAL knowledge. (ClinicalTrials.gov registration: NCT03355131).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307856	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307856	obesity
Nutrition, metabolism, and cardiovascular diseases : NMCD	The number and phenotype of myocardial and adipose tissue CD68+ cells is associated with cardiovascular and metabolic disease in heart surgery patients.	Regional-based increases in the frequency of CD68+ cells and changes of their phenotype in CLS were detected in obese patients and CAD patients. Therapeutic modulation of adipose tissue inflammation may represent a target for treatment of obesity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31307852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307852	obesity
Clinical nutrition (Edinburgh, Scotland)	Effects of a hypoenergetic diet associated with açaí (Euterpe oleracea Mart.) pulp consumption on antioxidant status, oxidative stress and inflammatory biomarkers in overweight, dyslipidemic individuals.	The addition of açaí to a HD, for 60 days, reduced oxidative stress and improved inflammation in overweight, dyslipidemic individuals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307842	obesity
Taiwanese journal of obstetrics & gynecology	A local risk score model for venous thromboembolism prophylaxis for caesarean section in Chinese women and comparison with international guidelines.	Our local risk score model avoided the need for large proportions of women to be subjected to pharmacological prophylaxis, and appeared safe and practical.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China (Republic : 1949- )	31307744	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307744	obesity
Advances in pharmacology (San Diego, Calif.)	Drug-induced liver injury in obesity and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	Obesity is commonly associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver (NAFL), a benign condition characterized by hepatic lipid accumulation. However, NAFL can progress in some patients to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and then to severe liver lesions including extensive fibrosis, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The entire spectrum of these hepatic lesions is referred to as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). The transition of simple fatty liver to NASH seems to be favored by several genetic and environmental factors. Different experimental and clinical investigations showed or suggested that obesity and NAFLD are able to increase the risk of hepatotoxicity of different drugs. Some of these drugs may cause more severe and/or more frequent acute liver injury in obese individuals whereas others may trigger the transition of simple fatty liver to NASH or may worsen hepatic lipid accumulation, necroinflammation and fibrosis. This review presents the available information regarding drugs that may cause a specific risk in the context of obesity and NAFLD. These drugs, which belong to different pharmacological classes, include acetaminophen, halothane, methotrexate, rosiglitazone and tamoxifen. For some of these drugs, experimental investigations confirmed the clinical observations and unveiled different pathophysiological mechanisms which may explain why these pharmaceuticals are particularly hepatotoxic in obesity and NAFLD. Because obese people often take several drugs for the treatment of different obesity-related diseases, there is an urgent need to identify the main pharmaceuticals that may cause acute liver injury on a fatty liver background or that may enhance the risk of severe chronic liver disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307592	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307592	obesity
The Proceedings of the Nutrition Society	Ethnic distinctions in the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes: a focus on black African-Caribbean populations.	Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a global public health priority, particularly for populations of black African-Caribbean ethnicity, who suffer disproportionately high rates of the disease. While the mechanisms underlying the development of T2D are well documented, there is growing evidence describing distinctions among black African-Caribbean populations. In the present paper, we review the evidence describing the impact of black African-Caribbean ethnicity on T2D pathophysiology. Ethnic differences were first recognised through evidence that metabolic syndrome diagnostic criteria fail to detect T2D risk in black populations due to less central obesity and dyslipidaemia. Subsequently more detailed investigations have recognised other mechanistic differences, particularly lower visceral and hepatic fat accumulation and a distinctly hyperinsulinaemic response to glucose stimulation. While epidemiological studies have reported exaggerated insulin resistance in black populations, more detailed and direct measures of insulin sensitivity have provided evidence that insulin sensitivity is not markedly different to other ethnic groups and does not explain the hyperinsulinaemia that is exhibited. These findings lead us to hypothesise that ectopic fat does not play a pivotal role in driving insulin resistance in black populations. Furthermore, we hypothesise that hyperinsulinaemia is driven by lower rates of hepatic insulin clearance rather than heightened insulin resistance and is a primary defect rather than occurring in compensation for insulin resistance. These hypotheses are being investigated in our ongoing South London Diabetes and Ethnicity Phenotyping study, which will enable a more detailed understanding of ethnic distinctions in the pathophysiology of T2D between men of black African and white European ethnicity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307560	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307560	obesity
BMC public health	A randomized controlled trial for overweight and obesity in preschoolers: the More and Less Europe study - an intervention within the STOP project.	ClinicalTrials.gov NCT03800823; 11 Jan 2019.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307412	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307412	obesity
Annals of human biology	The value of anthropometric indices for childhood obesity in Japan.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307229	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307229	obesity
Annals of human biology	Genetic variants influencing obesity-related traits in Japanese population.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307227	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307227	obesity
Experimental biology and medicine (Maywood, N.J.)	Dietary protein and exercise for preservation of lean mass and perspectives on type 2 diabetes prevention.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307203	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307203	obesity
Journal of nutritional science	Erratum: Physical activity in the classroom to prevent childhood obesity: A pilot study in Santiago, Chile - CORRIGENDUM.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1017/jns.2017.14.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	England	31306471	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306471	obesity
BMJ open	Corrections: 	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014004.][This corrects the article DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014004.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	England	31305785	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305785	obesity
Medicine	Erratum: Is obesity a predisposing factor for free flap failure and complications? Comparison between breast and nonbreast reconstruction: Systematic review and meta-analysis: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000004072.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305747	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305747	obesity
Medicine	Erratum: Combined effect of obesity and uric acid on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and hypertriglyceridemia: Erratum.	[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000006381.].	2017	eng	Published Erratum	United States	31305674	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305674	obesity
NPJ digital medicine	Prescribable mHealth apps identified from an overview of systematic reviews.	Mobile health apps aimed towards patients are an emerging field of mHealth. Their potential for improving self-management of chronic conditions is significant. Here, we propose a concept of "prescribable" mHealth apps, defined as apps that are currently available, proven effective, and preferably stand-alone, i.e., that do not require dedicated central servers and continuous monitoring by medical professionals. Our objectives were to conduct an overview of systematic reviews to identify such apps, assess the evidence of their effectiveness, and to determine the gaps and limitations in mHealth app research. We searched four databases from 2008 onwards and the Journal of Medical Internet Research for systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of stand-alone health apps. We identified 6 systematic reviews including 23 RCTs evaluating 22 available apps that mostly addressed diabetes, mental health and obesity. Most trials were pilots with small sample size and of short duration. Risk of bias of the included reviews and trials was high. Eleven of the 23 trials showed a meaningful effect on health or surrogate outcomes attributable to apps. In conclusion, we identified only a small number of currently available stand-alone apps that have been evaluated in RCTs. The overall low quality of the evidence of effectiveness greatly limits the prescribability of health apps. mHealth apps need to be evaluated by more robust RCTs that report between-group differences before becoming prescribable. Systematic reviews should incorporate sensitivity analysis of trials with high risk of bias to better summarize the evidence, and should adhere to the relevant reporting guideline.	2018	eng	Review	England	31304297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304297	obesity
NPJ science of food	Food for thought: how nutrition impacts cognition and emotion.	More than one-third of American adults are obese and statistics are similar worldwide. Caloric intake and diet composition have large and lasting effects on cognition and emotion, especially during critical periods in development, but the neural mechanisms for these effects are not well understood. A clear understanding of the cognitive-emotional processes underpinning desires to over-consume foods can assist more effective prevention and treatments of obesity. This review addresses recent work linking dietary fat intake and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid dietary imbalance with inflammation in developing, adult, and aged brains. Thus, early-life diet and exposure to stress can lead to cognitive dysfunction throughout life and there is potential for early nutritional interventions (e.g., with essential micronutrients) for preventing these deficits. Likewise, acute consumption of a high-fat diet primes the hippocampus to produce a potentiated neuroinflammatory response to a mild immune challenge, causing memory deficits. Low dietary intake of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids can also contribute to depression through its effects on endocannabinoid and inflammatory pathways in specific brain regions leading to synaptic phagocytosis by microglia in the hippocampus, contributing to memory loss. However, encouragingly, consumption of fruits and vegetables high in polyphenolics can prevent and even reverse age-related cognitive deficits by lowering oxidative stress and inflammation. Understanding relationships between diet, cognition, and emotion is necessary to uncover mechanisms involved in and strategies to prevent or attenuate comorbid neurological conditions in obese individuals.	2017	eng	Review	England	31304249	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304249	obesity
Addiction (Abingdon, England)	Association between opioid use disorder and fractures: A population-based study.	Taiwanese patients with opioid use disorder appear to have a higher adjusted hazard ratio for fracture than Taiwanese patients without opioid use disorder.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307110	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307110	obesity
Bone	PYY is a negative regulator of bone mass and strength.	These findings demonstrate that PYY acts as a negative regulator of osteoblastic bone formation, implicating increased PYY levels in the pathogenesis of bone loss during anorexia or following bariatric surgery.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306808	obesity
Biology of blood and marrow transplantation : journal of the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation	Outcomes of Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation in Patients with Germline SAMD9/SAMD9L Mutations.	Germline mutations in SAMD9 and SAMD9L genes cause MIRAGE (OMIM: *610456) and ataxia-pancytopenia (OMIM: *611170) syndromes, respectively, and are associated with chromosome 7 deletions, myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), and bone marrow failure. In this retrospective series, we report outcomes of allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in patients with hematologic disorders associated with SAMD9/SAMD9L mutations. Twelve patients underwent allogeneic HCT for MDS (n=10), congenital amegakaryocytic thrombocytopenia (n=1), and dyskeratosis congenita (n=1). Exome sequencing revealed heterozygous mutations in SAMD9 (n=6) or SAMD9L (n=6) genes. Four SAMD9 patients had features of MIRAGE syndrome. Median age at HCT was 2.8 years (range: 1.2-12.8). Conditioning was myeloablative in 9 cases and reduced-intensity in 3 cases. Syndrome-related comorbidities (diarrhea, infections, adrenal insufficiency, malnutrition, and electrolyte imbalance) were present in MIRAGE syndrome cases. One patient with a familial SAMD9L mutation, MDS and morbid obesity failed to engraft and died from refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The other 11 patients achieved neutrophil engraftment. Acute post-transplant course was complicated by syndrome related comorbidities in MIRAGE cases. A patient with SAMD9L associated MDS, died of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. The other 10 patients had resolution of hematological disorder and sustained peripheral blood donor chimerism. Ten out of 12 patients were alive with a median follow-up of 3.1 years (range: 0.1-14.7). More data are needed to refine transplant approaches in SAMD9/SAMD9L patients with significant comorbidities and to develop guidelines for their long-term follow-up.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306780	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306780	obesity
Food and chemical toxicology : an international journal published for the British Industrial Biological Research Association	Phenolic compounds from coffee by-products modulate adipogenesis-related inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and insulin resistance in adipocytes, via insulin/PI3K/AKT signaling pathways.	The aim was to evaluate the inhibitory potential of aqueous extracts from coffee silverskin (CSE) and husk (CHE) and their main phenolics on adipogenesis, obesity-related inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, and insulin resistance, in vitro. Coffee by-products extracts (31-500 μg mL	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306686	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306686	obesity
Molecular and biochemical parasitology	Hookworm infection aggravates metabolic disorder in obesity.	Obesity and ancylostomiasis are considered public health problems. Recent studies have shown that infection by intestinal helminths in obese individuals can ameliorate metabolic disorder and improve glucose tolerance by decreasing both insulin resistance and low-intensity inflammation. However, few helminth species have been studied in this context, and some modulation mechanisms still require deeper investigation. Therefore, the present work aimed to investigate the role of experimental infection with Ancylostoma ceylanicum in the modulation of the immune response in an obese experimental model. Four groups of hamsters were used as follows: two groups were submitted to a hyperlipidic and hypercaloric diet capable of inducing obesity, one infected and the other uninfected; and two normonourished control groups, one infected and one uninfected by A. ceylanicum. Biochemical, haematological, parasitological and immunological parameters were evaluated. The results demonstrated that A. ceylanicum infection accentuated weight loss in obese animals compared to normonourished animals. However, obesity reduced the recovery of worms and oviposition of the females, and both infected groups showed decreased levels of haemoglobin, albumin, iron and erythrocytes. Significant relations were observed for pathogenesis in the following cases: infection interfered in lipid metabolism, which increased levels of total cholesterol and triglycerides in the obese group, and caused a decrease in HDL levels in both groups. Obesity led to an increase in glucose levels, and the infection exacerbated this parameter in both the normonourished and obese groups. Inflammation was intensified in obese animals that showed elevated macrophage and neutrophil activation in adipose tissue, enlargement of the spleen and accumulation of lipids in the liver and faeces. Despite the decrease in IFN-γ levels, the infection did not potentiated the expression of the Foxp3, IL-10 and IL-2 transcription factor for any of the infected groups, markers that could positively compensate the host from the damage caused by obesity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306675	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306675	obesity
Molecular aspects of medicine	Contribution of brown adipose tissue to human energy metabolism.	The present "obesogenic' environment has favored excessive energy intake resulting in the current obesity epidemic and its associated diseases. The epidemic has incentivized scientists to develop novel behavioral and pharmacological strategies that enhance energy expenditure to compensate for excessive energy intake. Although physical activity is effective to increase total energy expenditure, it is insufficient to induce negative energy balance and weight loss. With the discovery of brown adipose tissue (BAT) in adult humans, BAT activation soon emerged as a potential strategy for elevating energy expenditure. BAT is the only tissue that expresses uncoupling protein 1, conferring on this tissue high thermogenic capacity due to a low efficiency for mitochondrial ATP generation. Potential manipulation of BAT mass and activity has fueled the interest in altering whole-body energy balance through increased energy expenditure. Remarkable advances have been made in quantifying the amount and activity of BAT in humans. Many studies have concluded that the amount of active BAT appears insufficient to induce meaningful increases in energy expenditure. Thus, the majority of studies report that BAT activation does not influence body weight and metabolic control in humans. Strategies to increase BAT mass and/or to potentiate BAT activity seem necessary.	2019	eng	Review	England	31306668	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306668	obesity
Archivos de prevencion de riesgos laborales	[Nutritional treatment for cardiovascular risk in a university worker].	Se presenta el caso de un profesor de 47 años, no fumador, con riesgo-cardiovascular (RCV) moderado (2%) según HeartScore: obesidad (Índice-masa-muscular: 32,8kg/m2); índice cintura-cadera: 1,08, tensión-arterial alta: 150/101mmHg, hipercolesterolemia: 223mg/dl. La anamnesis-alimentaria inicial (2016) muestra consumo: 2100kcal/día (distribuidas en 24% proteínas, 45% grasas, 31% carbohidratos) y, potasio (51%) y vitamina-D (42%) bajos; consume 2 bebidas-alcohólicas/semana. El tratamiento dietético consistió en 2500kcal/día competencias del dietista-nutricionista y la coordinación del Servicio-Prevención-universitario como activos de salud comunitarios, para revertir parámetros de RCV especialmente antropométricos y tensión-arterial.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31306572	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306572	obesity
Clinical endocrinology	Characterization of metabolic changes in the phenotypes of women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome in a large Mediterranean population from Sicily.	In Mediterranean women with PCOS from Sicily with a lower prevalence of obesity, the prevalence of diabetes, altered glucose metabolism and metabolic syndrome were much lower than reported in US studies. Phenotype B was the most metabolically affected phenotype, followed by phenotype A. Phenotype C had an intermediate disorder but with a high prevalence of altered glucose metabolism and lipid alterations. Only the normoandrogenic phenotype D had no metabolic abnormalities. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306504	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306504	obesity
Journal of cardiovascular pharmacology	Nebivolol improves obesity-induced vascular remodelling by suppressing NLRP3 activation.	Nebivolol is a novel β-adrenergic receptor (β-AR) blocker with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. The NLRP3 inflammasome plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of obesity-induced vascular dysfunction. Our study aimed to explore the effect of nebivolol on the NLRP3 inflammasome and vascular remodelling in diet-induced obese rats. Eight-week-old Sprague-Dawley male rats were fed with either a standard chow diet (ND) or a high-fat diet (HFD) for 8 weeks. Next, the obese rats were subdivided into three groups as follows: 1) HFD control group; 2) HFD with low doses of nebivolol (5 mg /kg/d); and 3) HFD with high doses of nebivolol (10 mg/kg/d). A four-week treatment with nebivolol improved acetylcholine-induced vascular relaxation in accordance with an increased aortic endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Nebivolol enhanced the levels of phase II detoxifying enzymes, including superoxide dismutase and catalase. In parallel, nebivolol attenuated NLRP3 inflammasome activation and suppressed autophagy. These effects were associated with an increased β3-AR level. Moreover, nebivolol treatment significantly increased of AMP-activated protein kinase activity and decreased of phosphorylation of the mammalian target of rapamycin. These results demonstrated that nebivolol improves obesity-induced vascular remodelling by attenuating NLRP3 inflammasome activation and restoring the antioxidant defence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306372	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306372	obesity
Journal of clinical gastroenterology	Obesity Does Not Impact Outcomes or Rates of Gastroesophageal Reflux After Peroral Endoscopic Myotomy in Achalasia.	POEM is an equally safe and effective treatment option for both nonobese and obese patients with achalasia in the short-term. Interestingly, POEM does not lead to higher rates of GERD in obese compared with nonobese patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306345	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306345	obesity
Journal of pediatric hematology/oncology	Challenges in the Diagnosis of Medulloblastoma Recurrence at an Unusual Site in a Patient With Prader-Willi Syndrome.	Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor. Survival rates range between 50% and 80% depending on histology and other biological features, metastases, and treatment approach. Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is a genetically inherited disorder characterized by dysmorphic features, mental retardation, obesity, and hypogonadism among other features. We describe a 10.5-year-old girl with PWS and previous standard-risk medulloblastoma that relapsed in the pons 3 years after the end of treatment. Diagnosis of relapse was delayed by a preceding varicella infection, an initial clinical/radiologic response to steroids and the unusual location, and was confirmed with a stereotactic biopsy. Second-line therapy was commenced, however, the patient rapidly deteriorated and died. This is the first report of medulloblastoma in a patient with PWS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306337	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306337	obesity
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Dementia Risk Elevates Brain Activity During Memory Retrieval: A Functional MRI Analysis of Middle Aged and Older Adults.	Longitudinal research suggests that genetic, lifestyle, and environmental factors enhance one's risk for developing Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD). However, it is not known how an accumulation of such factors impact brain functioning. One barrier to this research is that increased risk for ADRD affects the cerebrovascular system and, therefore, alters the link between neural activity and the fMRI BOLD signal. To better interpret fMRI findings, several steps were taken to adjust fMRI activity thereby reducing such cerebrovascular effects. We hypothesized that as the number of ADRD risk factors increase, brain regions within the medial temporal lobes and the default mode network would exhibit altered brain activity during an episodic memory retrieval task. Middle-aged and older adults (aged 50-74) free of dementia were recruited with varying levels of risk and underwent a neuropsychological battery and fMRI. In the memory task, participants viewed a pair of pictures. In an alternative-forced-choice test, participants viewed a picture cue and had to determine which of four pictures was paired with the cue. Increased dementia risk was positively associated with brain activity in regions of interest within the default mode network, the hippocampus, and the entorhinal cortex during memory retrieval. Whole-brain analyses revealed additional positive associations in prefrontal and occipito-temporal cortices. Risk factors most contributing to these elevated levels of brain activity included hypertension, diabetes, obesity, and cholesterol. We also ruled out confounds due to in-scanner performance and premorbid ability. Cumulative risk might represent early signs of burnout in brain regions underlying episodic memory.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306118	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306118	obesity
Environmental health perspectives	Effects of Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Deficiency on PCB-77-Induced Impairment of Glucose Homeostasis during Weight Loss in Male and Female Obese Mice.	Male and female mice responded differently to PCB-77 and AhR deficiency in body weight (BW) regulation and glucose homeostasis. AhR deficiency reversed PCB-77-induced glucose impairment of obese males losing weight but augmented glucose intolerance of females. These results demonstrate sex differences in PCB-77-induced regulation of glucose homeostasis of mice. https://doi.org/10.1289/EHP4133.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306034	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306034	obesity
The journal of physical chemistry. B	Human Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase 1 is an Isomerase: Carboxyl Transfer is Activated by Catalytic Effect of Isomerization.	Obesity and its related diseases such as cancer and diabetics are leading life-threatening issues in modern world. Thus, new drugs toward obesity and obesity caused diseases are highly desired. Human acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (hACC1) in charge of rate-limiting step of human fatty acid synthesis was recognized as an attractive target for rational drug design. The fundamental reaction mechanism and the nature of transtion state of hACC1 remain unclear. In this study, combined quantum mechanics and molecular mechanics (QM/MM) molecular dynamics (MD) and free energy simulations were performed to investigate the catalytic mechanism of hACC1 catalyzed carboxyl transfer reaction. Our computational results show a three-step mechanism for CT catalyzed reaction, including isomerization of carboxybiotin, proton transfer from acetyl-CoA to carboxybiotin, and carboxylation of acetyl-CoA enolate. Interestingly, isomerization of carboxybiotin is the rate-limiting step of the entire reaction pathway, indicating hACC1 has the catalytic effect of isomerization and thus might be an isomerase as well. The activation free energy barrier of carboxyl transfer catalyzed by hACC1 was calculated to be 16.4 kcal/mol, in excellent agreement with experimental result (16.7 kcal/mol). The obtained reaction mechanism together with the nature of transition state provide helpful knowledge not only for future investigation of other ACCs but also for rational design of hACC1 inhibitors, such as TS analogue. The catalytic effect of hACC1 isomerization is discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306022	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306022	obesity
JAMA neurology	Association of Obesity With Multiple Sclerosis Risk and Response to First-line Disease Modifying Drugs in Children.	In this study, increased pediatric MS risk appeared to be associated with obesity, and obese patients did not respond well to first-line medications; altered pharmacokinetics appeared to be most likely factors in treatment response, suggesting that achieving healthy weight or adjusting the dose according to BMI could improve therapy response.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305922	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305922	obesity
Advances in nutrition (Bethesda, Md.)	Perspective: Public Health Nutrition Policies Should Focus on Healthy Eating, Not on Calorie Counting, Even to Decrease Obesity.	Calorie-focused policies, such as calorie menu labeling, seem to result in minor shifts toward healthier choices and public health improvement. This paper discusses the (lack of) relations between energy intake and healthy eating and the rationale for shifting the focus of public health nutrition policies to healthier foods and meals. We argue that the benefits of reducing caloric intake from low-quality foods might not result from the calorie reduction but rather from the reduced consumption of low-quality foods. It is better to consume a given number of calories from high-quality foods than a smaller number of calories from low-quality foods. It is not possible to choose a healthy diet solely based on the caloric value of foods because calories are not equal; they differ in nutritional quality according to their source. Foods are more than just a collection of calories and nutrients, and nutrients interact differently when presented as foods. Different subtypes of a macronutrient, although they have the same caloric value, are metabolized and influence health in different ways. For instance, industrial trans fats increase lipogenesis and the risk of heart diseases, whereas monounsaturated fats have the opposite effect. Food processing and cooking methods also influence the nutritional value of foods. Thus, public health nutrition policies should stop encouraging people to focus mainly on calorie counting to fight noncommunicable diseases. Instead, policies should focus on ingredients, dietary sources, and food processing and cooking methods.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305908	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305908	obesity
JAMA internal medicine	The Ketogenic Diet for Obesity and Diabetes-Enthusiasm Outpaces Evidence.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305866	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305866	obesity
Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE	Identification of Orexin and Endocannabinoid Receptors in Adult Zebrafish Using Immunoperoxidase and Immunofluorescence Methods.	Immunohistochemistry (IHC) is a highly sensitive and specific technique involved in the detection of target antigens in tissue sections with labeled antibodies. It is a multistep process in which the optimization of each step is crucial to obtain the optimum specific signal. Through IHC, the distribution and localization of specific biomarkers can be detected, revealing information on evolutionary conservation. Moreover, IHC allows for the understanding of expression and distribution changes of biomarkers in pathological conditions, such as obesity. IHC, mainly the immunofluorescence technique, can be used in adult zebrafish to detect the organization and distribution of phylogenetically conserved molecules, but a standard IHC protocol is not estasblished. Orexin and endocannabinoid are two highly conserved systems involved in the control of food intake and obesity pathology. Reported here are protocols used to obtain information about orexin peptide (OXA), orexin receptor (OX-2R), and cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) localization and distribution in the gut and brain of normal and diet-induced obese (DIO) adult zebrafish models. Also described are methods for immunoperoxidase and double immunofluorescence, as well as preparation of reagents, fixation, paraffin-embedding, and cryoprotection of zebrafish tissue and preparation for an endogenous activity-blocking step and background counterstaining. The complete set of parameters is obtained from previous IHC experiments, through which we have shown how immunofluorescence can help with the understanding of OXs, OX-2R, and CB1R distribution, localization, and conservation of expression in adult zebrafish tissues. The resulting images with highly specific signal intensity led to the confirmation that zebrafish are suitable animal models for immunohistochemical studies of distribution, localization, and evolutionary conservation of specific biomarkers in physiological and pathological conditions. The protocols presented here are recommended for IHC experiments in adult zebrafish.	2019	eng	Video-Audio Media	United States	31305518	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305518	obesity
Medicine	MC4R and HNF4α promoter methylation at birth contribute to triglyceride levels in childhood: A prospective cohort study.	Although the changes in DNA methylation are assumed to be due to the association between adverse intrauterine conditions and adult metabolic health, evidence from human studies is rare. Little is known about the changes in DNA methylation present at birth that affect metabolic profiles in childhood. Previous studies have shown that the melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha (HNF4α) genes are associated with obesity and metabolic disorders. Thus, we investigated the associations of the DNA methylation statuses of MC4R and HNF4α in cord blood with metabolic profiles in childhood.We collected data from 90 children 7 to 9 years of age included in the Ewha Birth & Growth Cohort Study in Korea. DNA methylation was analyzed by pyrosequencing. The children were split into 2 groups according to the cutoff triglyceride (TG) levels (<110 and ≥110 mg/dL).The methylation statuses of MC4R and HNF4α at birth were significantly associated with the TG level in childhood (P < .05). It was interesting to note that the methylation statuses of MC4R and HNF4α in cord blood were significantly decreased, whereas childhood body mass index was significantly increased, in children with high TG levels compared with children with low TG levels (P < .05).Our findings show that the methylation statuses of MC4R and HNF4α at birth are associated with metabolic profiles in childhood. These epigenetic modifications occurring in early life may contribute to subsequent metabolic-related disorders. Thus, we suggest that DNA methylation status in cord blood may be predictive of the risk of developing metabolic syndrome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305461	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305461	obesity
Medicine	Obesity in psoriatic arthritis: Comparative prevalence and associated factors.	Obesity is a common cardiovascular risk factor in psoriatic disease. Although the prevalence of obesity is high, the factors associated with it in patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA) are poorly understood. We aimed to analyze the frequency and obesity-associated factors in a cohort of PsA.This retrospective cross-sectional study included 290 consecutive patients with PsA according to CASPAR criteria. Three-hundred ten psoriatic patients without arthritis and 600 outpatients without inflammatory conditions were used as comparison populations. The factors associated with obesity were analyzed first using conditional logistic regression. The significant factors in this first model were introduced in a multivariate model using a backward step approach.This series included 159 men (54.8%) and 131 women (45.2%), with an average age of 54 ± 12 years. Obesity was more common both in psoriasis (36.5% vs 22%, OR 2.1 [95%CI: 1.5-2.8), P < .01]) and PsA (27.6% vs 22%, OR 1.4 [95%CI: 1.0-1.9], P < .05) than in the non-inflammatory population. Obesity was more frequent in psoriasis (36.5%) than in PsA (27.6%), OR 1.5 95% CI: 1.1 to 2.1, P < .05. After correcting for age, sex, disease duration, and other confounders, independent associations with obesity (P < .05) were: PsA family history (OR 3.6, 95%CI: 1.1-12.4), evolution as axial disease (OR 4.4, 95%CI: 1.0-15.4), and dyslipidemia (OR 3.5, 95%CI: 1.5-8.6).Obesity is common in psoriatic disease, but much more frequent among patients with cutaneous than joint disease. Patients who present with spondylitis during evolution are more prone to this comorbidity, and therefore, should be closely monitored to correct this eventuality in a timely manner.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305449	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305449	obesity
Journal of pediatric orthopedics	Idiopathic Genu Valgum and Its Association With Obesity in Children and Adolescents.	Level III.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305377	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305377	obesity
Journal of public health management and practice : JPHMP	Higher Prevalence of Health-Risk Factors Among US Adults With Unmet Health Care Needs Due to Cost, 2016.	Unmet health care needs was associated with more health-risk factors regardless of insurance status. Addressing cost barriers to behavioral counseling may be one approach to consider when seeking to reduce health-risk behaviors among high-risk populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305323	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305323	obesity
eLife	Impaired skeletal muscle mitochondrial pyruvate uptake rewires glucose metabolism to drive whole-body leanness.	Metabolic cycles are a fundamental element of cellular and organismal function. Among the most critical in higher organisms is the Cori Cycle, the systemic cycling between lactate and glucose. Here, skeletal muscle-specific Mitochondrial Pyruvate Carrier (MPC) deletion in mice diverted pyruvate into circulating lactate. This switch disinhibited muscle fatty acid oxidation and drove Cori Cycling that contributed to increased energy expenditure. Loss of muscle MPC activity led to strikingly decreased adiposity with complete muscle mass and strength retention. Notably, despite decreasing muscle glucose oxidation, muscle MPC disruption increased muscle glucose uptake and whole-body insulin sensitivity. Furthermore, chronic and acute muscle MPC deletion accelerated fat mass loss on a normal diet after high fat diet-induced obesity. Our results illuminate the role of the skeletal muscle MPC as a whole-body carbon flux control point. They highlight the potential utility of decreasing muscle pyruvate utilization to ameliorate obesity and type 2 diabetes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305240	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305240	obesity
Metabolic syndrome and related disorders	Prevalence of Metabolic Syndrome in Prediabetes.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305207	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305207	obesity
DNA and cell biology	Role of microRNA in the Pathogenesis of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome.	Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most typical metabolic syndrome in women of reproductive age, with a high prevalence and an increased risk of long-term complications. PCOS mainly manifests as hyperandrogenism (HA), ovulatory dysfunction, and polycystic ovaries, in addition to being relevant to infertility, insulin resistance (IR), obesity, lipid abnormalities, and chronic low-grade inflammation. The etiology of this syndrome remains largely unknown. microRNAs (miRNAs), small, noncoding RNAs (nearly 22 nucleotides long), regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. Abnormal miRNA levels are closely associated with the occurrence of diseases, such as diabetes, cancers, and atherosclerosis, and miRNAs can be used as predictors and diagnostic biomarkers for cancer. Interestingly, the roles of miRNAs in PCOS pathology have attracted considerable attention in recent years. Research has established that alterations in miRNA expression in women with PCOS compared with healthy women may act as noninvasive biomarkers and new therapeutic targets in PCOS. This article aims to summarize the latest research on the relationship between miRNAs and the clinical manifestations of PCOS while also providing a few mechanisms based on previous studies. Understanding the relationship between miRNAs and PCOS will provide guidance for researchers to further explore the complexity and heterogeneity of PCOS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305133	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305133	obesity
Neoplasma	Accelerated atherosclerosis, hyperlipoproteinemia and insulin resistance in long-term survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma during childhood and adolescence.	Long-term survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma during childhood or adolescence (HL survivors) are at high risk of developing treatment-related late cardiovascular sequelae. In our study we evaluated the presence of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors (hypertension, hyperlipoproteinemia, hyperinsulinemia, obesity), endothelial and inflammatory markers (E-selectin, PAI-1, hs-CRP) and atherosclerotic changes in the common carotid arteries. Assessment was performed in 80 young adult Hodgkin lymphoma long-term survivors at more than 10 years after the potentially cardiovascular toxic anticancer treatment (median age at evaluation 34.7 years; range 24.1-40.9 years). The HL survivors were compared with 83 age- and gender-matched healthy volunteers. The HL survivors showed unfavorable lipid profiles compared to those of healthy controls: triglycerides (p=0.01), total cholesterol (p=0.0004), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (p=0.005). In HL survivors, we found a higher prevalence of hypertension (p=0.004) and insulin resistance - HOMA-IR (p=0.0002). Ultrasonographic examination of both common carotid arteries revealed a higher prevalence of atherosclerotic plaques (p=0.0009) and higher carotid intima-media thickness (p<0.0001) in HL survivors. Markers of oxidative stress (advanced oxidation protein products, oxidized low-density lipoprotein), inflammation (hs-CRP) and endothelial dysfunction (E-selectin, PAI-1) were also higher in HL survivors (p<0.0001, p=0.0002, p=0.0031, p=0.0087, p=0.004, respectively). Adult survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma during childhood and adolescence need closer follow-up with screening of metabolic syndrome components, unfavorable lifestyle factors and early management of these risk factors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Slovakia	31305124	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305124	obesity
The American psychologist	Fundamental movement skills training in childhood obesity treatments: Reply to Hyman (2019).	Hyman (2019) provides a commentary on our recent review of behavioral interventions for obesity that highlights an opportunity to intervene with children with obesity to build fundamental movement skills. This suggestion is relatively novel for the childhood obesity intervention field and is deserving of additional research. Future studies should assess the efficacy of fundamental movement skills training to contribute to weight and/or weight-related outcomes in children with obesity as well as consider whether it is best to include fundamental movement skills training as part of, or complementary to, current treatment interventions. If efficacy is demonstrated, it is also prudent to understand how fundamental movement skills training may be implemented into current care models. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305103	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305103	obesity
The American psychologist	Integration of movement competency training to optimize behavioral interventions for child obesity: Comment on Wilfley et al. (2018).	Wilfley, Hayes, Balantekin, Van Buren, and Epstein (2018) provided an important review of behavioral interventions for obesity in children and adults. Although behavioral change interventions are effective in increasing the frequency of exercise behaviors, behavioral treatment providers may not be experts regarding how fundamental movement/motor skills (FMS) deficits (e.g., ability to run, skip, balance, leap, kick, throw, catch, bounce) may hinder obese children from achieving physical activity goals. Prerequisite knowledge and skills are necessary to perform new target behaviors such as increasing physical activity, and exercise physiologists are best positioned to provide individualized exercise prescriptions to improve movement competence. Similar to psychologists and other behavioral treatment providers, exercise physiologists conduct their exercise interventions using an individualized, skills-building approach; by working collaboratively, behavioral health providers and exercise physiologists can develop integrative behavioral treatment plans to improve skills (both cognitive-behavioral and FMS) that may increase physical activity and improve health outcomes in children with obesity. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305102	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305102	obesity
Human reproduction update	The effect of physical activity on reproductive health outcomes in young women: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	There is emerging evidence from RCT that PA may improve pregnancy rates in women with reproductive health problems. Comparative studies indicate that PA intervention may be as effective as other commonly used clinical intervention strategies for improving reproductive health outcomes. While the type, intensity, frequency, and duration of optimal PA intervention, and the role of PA independent of weight loss, remain unclear, these preliminary findings suggest that PA may be an affordable and feasible alternative or complementary therapy to fertility treatments.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304974	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304974	obesity
Journal of the American Heart Association	Classical Cardiovascular Risk Factors and HIV are Associated With Carotid Intima-Media Thickness in Adults From Sub-Saharan Africa: Findings From H3Africa AWI-Gen Study.	Background Studies on the determinants of carotid intima-media thickness ( CIMT ), a marker of sub-clinical atherosclerosis, mostly come from white, Asian, and diasporan black populations. We present CIMT data from sub-Saharan Africa, which is experiencing a rising burden of cardiovascular diseases and infectious diseases. Methods and Results The H3 (Human Hereditary and Health) in Africa's AWI-Gen (African-Wits-INDEPTH partnership for Genomic) study is a cross-sectional study conducted in adults aged 40 to 60 years from Burkina Faso, Kenya, Ghana, and South Africa. Cardiovascular disease risk and ultrasonography of the CIMT of right and left common carotids were measured. Multivariable linear and mixed-effect multilevel regression modeling was applied to determine factors related to CIMT. Data included 8872 adults (50.8% men), mean age of 50±6 years with age- and sex-adjusted mean (±SE) CIMT of 640±123μm. Participants from Ghana and Burkina Faso had higher CIMT compared with other sites. Age (β = 6.77, 95%CI [6.34-7.19]), body mass index (17.6[12.5-22.8]), systolic blood pressure (7.52[6.21-8.83]), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (5.08[2.10-8.06]) and men (10.3[4.75- 15.9]) were associated with higher CIMT. Smoking was associated with higher CIMT in men. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-12.2 [-17.9- -6.41]), alcohol consumption (-13.5 [-19.1--7.91]) and HIV (-8.86 [-15.7--2.03]) were inversely associated with CIMT. Conclusions Given the rising prevalence of cardiovascular diseases risk factors in sub-Saharan Africa, atherosclerotic diseases may become a major pan-African epidemic unless preventive measures are taken particularly for prevention of hypertension, obesity, and smoking. HIV -specific studies are needed to fully understand the association between HIV and CIMT in sub-Saharan Africa.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304842	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304842	obesity
Expert opinion on drug safety	Metabolic complications affecting adipose tissue, lipid and glucose metabolism associated with HIV antiretroviral treatment.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304808	obesity
Journal of obstetrics and gynaecology : the journal of the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology	The association between dietary antioxidants, oxidative stress markers, abdominal obesity and poly-cystic ovary syndrome: A case control study.	In this case-control study, 60 patients with Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) referred to the Nursing and Midwifery Center of Khorramabad, were selected as the case group and 90 non-PCOS patients as the control group. Demographic information and anthropometric indices of each person were collected. The Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) and International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) were completed. After at least 12 h of fasting, 7 mL of blood samples were taken from the patients. There was no statistically significant difference observed in the mean of the total antioxidant capacity (TAC) between the two groups. However, a statistically significant difference was found between the two groups in terms of malondialdehyde (MDA) and some dietary antioxidants levels (mean in case group: vit C = 34/2 mg, vit E = 7/7 mg, Se = 84/6 µg, Zn = 7/5 mg, beta-carotene = 762/8 µg, mean in control group: vit C = 72/5 mg, vit E = 10/6 mg, Se = 91/0 µg, Zn = 10/6 mg, beta-carotene = 1609/5 µg). IMPACT STATEMENT 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304805	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304805	obesity
Annals of human biology	Profiles of body mass index and blood pressure among young adults categorized by waist-to-height ratio cut-offs in Shandong, China.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304787	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304787	obesity
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Association of Genetic Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease with Insulin Resistance-Are we Different?	The presence of the PNPLA3 G allele is associated with a risk of NAFLD. Our study shows that subjects with variant PNPLA3 are not only at increased risk for the development and progression of NAFLD, but also have increased insulin resistance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31304703	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304703	obesity
Journal of cellular physiology	Adhesion G-protein coupled receptor 56 is required for 3T3-L1 adipogenesis.	Obesity-associated conditions represent major global health and financial burdens and understanding processes regulating adipogenesis could lead to novel intervention strategies. This study shows that adhesion G-protein coupled receptor 56 (GPR56) gene transcripts are reduced in abdominal visceral white adipose tissue derived from obese Zucker rats versus lean controls. Immunostaining in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes reveals both mitotic cell restricted surface and low level general expression patterns of Gpr56. Gpr56 transcripts are differentially expressed in 3T3-L1 cells during adipogenesis. Transient knockdown (KD) of Gpr56 in 3T3-L1 cells dramatically inhibits differentiation through reducing the accumulation of both neutral cellular lipids (56%) and production of established adipogenesis Pparγ 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304602	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304602	obesity
Europace : European pacing, arrhythmias, and cardiac electrophysiology : journal of the working groups on cardiac pacing, arrhythmias, and cardiac cellular electrophysiology of the European Society of Cardiology	Association between pre-ablation bariatric surgery and atrial fibrillation recurrence in morbidly obese patients undergoing atrial fibrillation ablation.	Bariatric surgery is associated with a lower AF recurrence after ablation. Morbidly obese patients should be considered for BS prior to AF ablation, though prospective multicentre studies should be performed to confirm our novel finding.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304532	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304532	obesity
La Clinica terapeutica	Efficacy of the curves training program for loosing body weight, body circumferences and fat mass percentage: a non randomized clinical trial.	This "Curves" program improved strength muscles, loss of fat and fat mass reduction more than High Intensity Interval Training.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31304507	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304507	obesity
Current developments in nutrition	Circulating 25-Hydroxyvitamin D Concentrations in Overweight and Obese Adults Are Explained by Sun Exposure, Skin Reflectance, and Body Composition.	Major determinants of serum 25(OH)D concentration in healthy overweight and obese individuals include sun exposure, skin reflectance, and adiposity. Addition of adiposity terms to the prior model significantly improved predictive ability in overweight and obese men and women. (clinicaltrials.gov: NCT00858312).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304455	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304455	obesity
Hepatology communications	Selective Liver Estrogen Receptor α Modulation Prevents Steatosis, Diabetes, and Obesity Through the Anorectic Growth Differentiation Factor 15 Hepatokine in Mice.	Hepatocyte estrogen receptor α (ERα) was recently recognized as a relevant molecular target for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) prevention. The present study defined to what extent hepatocyte ERα could be involved in preserving metabolic homeostasis in response to a full (17β-estradiol [E2]) or selective (selective estrogen receptor modulator [SERM]) activation. Ovariectomized mice harboring a hepatocyte-specific 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304450	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304450	obesity
International journal of pediatrics & adolescent medicine	Screening of Egyptian obese children and adolescents for insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism in angiotensin-converting enzyme gene.	DD genotype and D-allele of the ACE gene polymorphism were associated with obesity and with hypertension and pre-hypertension in Egyptian children.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31304224	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304224	obesity
Basic and clinical andrology	Metabolic syndrome and smoking are independent risk factors of male idiopathic infertility.	Le syndrome métabolique et le tabagisme devraient être systématiquement contrôlés au début des soins médicaux chez les hommes infertiles et un accompagnement personnel et multidisciplinaire devrait être proposé pour traiter conjointement le tabagisme et les troubles du métabolisme.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304019	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304019	obesity
International journal of general medicine	Correlation of selected stress associated factors with vitamin D deficiency in Jordanian men and women.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31303782	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303782	obesity
Journal of anaesthesiology, clinical pharmacology	Effect of intravenous versus intraperitoneal magnesium sulfate on hemodynamic parameters and postoperative analgesia during laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy-A prospective randomized study.	The IV and IP administration of MgSo	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31303716	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303716	obesity
The Journal of the Oklahoma State Medical Association	Overview of Pediatric Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: A Guide for General Practitioners.	All obese children, especially those who are Hispanics or have a family history of NAFLD should be considered for screening with serum ALT between the ages of 9 and 11 years. Children with ALT values that are elevated more than twice the upper limit of normal for more than 3 months must be referred to pediatric hepatology for timely evaluation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303681	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303681	obesity
Geburtshilfe und Frauenheilkunde	Coagulation Biomarkers in Women with Recurrent Miscarriage and Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31303657	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303657	obesity
Journal of cardiology	Use of speckle tracking to assess heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.	Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) currently represents approximately 50% of heart failure (HF) cases in the USA and is increasingly recognized as a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Recent data suggest that the prevalence of HFpEF relative to HF with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) is increasing at a rate of 1% per year. With an aging population and increasing risk factors such as hypertension, obesity, and diabetes mellitus, HFpEF will soon be the most prevalent HF phenotype. Two-dimensional speckle-tracking echocardiography (STE) has been used to diagnose HFpEF specifically by focusing on the longitudinal systolic function of the left ventricle (LV). Yet there are many patients with HFpEF in whom there are no differences in LV global longitudinal systolic strain, but there are changes in left atrial function and structure. There are several proposed pathophysiological mechanisms for HFpEF such as endothelial dysfunction, interactions among proteins, signaling pathways, and myocardial bioenergetics. Yet only one specific therapy, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist, spironolactone, is recommended as a treatment for patients with HFpEF. However, spironolactone does not address many of the pathophysiologic changes that occur in HFpEF, thus new novel therapeutic agents are needed. With the limited available therapies, clinicians should use STE to assess for the presence of this syndrome in their patients to provide effective diagnosis and management.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31303358	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303358	obesity
Public health nutrition	Effects of a multipronged beverage intervention on young children's beverage intake and weight: a cluster-randomized pilot study.	Our exploratory pilot study suggests that interventions focused comprehensively on encouraging healthier beverage consumption could improve children's beverage intake and weight. Findings should be confirmed in longer, larger studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303190	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303190	obesity
The journal of maternal-fetal & neonatal medicine : the official journal of the European Association of Perinatal Medicine, the Federation of Asia and Oceania Perinatal Societies, the International Society of Perinatal Obstetricians	Potential use of electrohysterography in obstetrics: a review article.	Monitoring the uterine contraction during pregnancy is necessary to monitor labor progress, fetal and maternal well-being, and uterine activity. The aim of this review was to evaluate the performance of electrohysterography and to analyze the nature of uterine contraction. A search was undertaken using PubMed, Embase, and ClinicalTrials.gov database from 1 January 1950 to 1 November 2018. Search terms include: "Uterine" or "Uterus" or "Labor" or "Labour" and "electrical activity" or "electrohysterogram" or "electrohysterograph". Reviewing the literature, electrohysterography showed a higher sensitivity for uterine contraction detection and was independent of body mass index, abdominal wall thickness, or maternal position enabling monitoring obese patients as well. Electrohysterography can enhance uterine monitoring throughout labor because of its noninvasiveness, adhesive properties, and reduced obesity sensitiveness. Electrohysterography should be available to safely improve intrapartum monitoring instead of the invasive intrauterine pressure catheter.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303075	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303075	obesity
Canadian journal of psychiatry. Revue canadienne de psychiatrie	Understanding Engagement with a Physical Health Service: A Qualitative Study of Patients with Severe Mental Illness.	This qualitative study suggests that traditional models of medical care for chronic conditions pose challenges for many individuals with SMI and contribute to health disparities. Adaptation of medical care to populations with SMI and close collaboration between medical and mental health services are necessary to improve medical care and, subsequently, health outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303027	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303027	obesity
Eating and weight disorders : EWD	Disordered eating and weight loss after bariatric surgery.	III: retrospective cohort study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302883	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302883	obesity
Eating and weight disorders : EWD	'Impaired Autonomy and Performance' predicts binge eating disorder among obese patients.	Level III, case-control study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302882	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302882	obesity
Sleep & breathing = Schlaf & Atmung	Exposure to intermittent hypoxia inhibits allergic airway inflammation in a murine model of asthma.	These results suggest that IH may not deteriorate the asthmatic condition in a murine model of asthma.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302837	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302837	obesity
European archives of psychiatry and clinical neuroscience	Prevalence of obesity, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and risk of cardiovascular disease in a psychiatric inpatient sample: results of the Metabolism in Psychiatry (MiP) Study.	The information on prevalence of obesity, diabetes, metabolic syndrome (MetS) and cardiovascular risk (CVR) and on sociodemographic variables available in patients with psychiatric diseases about to be treated with weight gain-associated medication (e.g., clozapine, mirtazapine, quetiapine) is limited. In a naturalistic study, psychiatric inpatients (age: 18-75) of all F diagnoses according to ICD-10, who were about to be treated with weight gain-associated medication, were included. Demographic variables were assessed as well as biological parameters to calculate the Body Mass Index (BMI), MetS, diabetes and CVR. A total of 163 inpatients were included (60.1% male; mean age: 39.8 (± 15.1, 18-75 years). The three most common disorders were depression (46.0%), bipolar disorder (20.9%) and drug addiction (20.2%). The three most common pharmacotherapeutic agents prescribed were quetiapine (29.4%), mirtazapine (20.9%) and risperidone (12.9%). Of the included inpatients 30.1% were overweight, 17.2% obese, and 26.9% and 22.4% fulfilled the criteria for a MetS according to the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) and the National Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (NCEP ATP III), respectively, 3.8% had (pre)diabetes and 8.3% had a moderate and 1.9% a high CVR according to the Prospective Cardiovascular Münster (PROCAM) score. Detailed information is reported on all assessed parameters as well as on subgroup analyses concerning sociodemographic variables. The results suggest that psychiatric patients suffer from multiple metabolic disturbances in comparison to the general population. Monitoring weight, waist circumference, blood pressure and cholesterol regularly is, therefore, highly relevant.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302731	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302731	obesity
Lifestyle genomics	Exercise Response Efficiency: A Novel Way to Enhance Population Health?	The rates of obesity and its related comorbidities have increased substantially over the last 30 years, with approximately 35% of all US adults now classified as obese. Whilst the causes of obesity are both complex and multifactorial, one contributor is a reduction in leisure time physical activity, with no concurrent reduction in energy intake. Physical activity interventions have been demonstrated to promote fat loss, yet more than 50% of US adults undertake no leisure time physical activity at all, with a lack of time and enjoyment often cited as the main drivers of rising inactivity levels. Furthermore, recent evidence has demonstrated that a sub-group of individuals may experience no improvement in a given fitness or health-related measure following a specific training programme, suggesting that there may be optimal exercise types for different groups of individuals. In this paper, we introduce the concept of exercise response efficiency, whereby individuals are matched to the training type from which they are most likely to derive the greatest improvements for the least time commitment. We propose that a more precise targeting of exercise interventions is likely to drive more rapid improvements in health, thereby promoting exercise adherence and enjoyment, whilst simultaneously reducing obesity and mortality risks. Such an innovation would, we suggest, confer important public health benefits.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31302657	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302657	obesity
Annals of nutrition & metabolism	Effects of Prepregnancy Body Mass Index, Weight Gain, and Gestational Diabetes Mellitus on Pregnancy Outcomes: A Population-Based Study in Xiamen, China, 2011-2018.	Obesity prior to pregnancy, excessive GWG, and GDM were all associated with increased odds of cesarean, LGA, and macrosomia. Blood glucose and weight control before and during pregnancy are needed that may reduce the complications of pregnancy.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31302647	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302647	obesity
Psychoneuroendocrinology	Metabolic and endocrinal effects of N-desmethyl-olanzapine in mice with obesity: Implication for olanzapine-associated metabolic changes.	Clinical use of the antipsychotic drug olanzapine (OLA) is associated with metabolic side effects to variable degrees. N-desmethyl-olanzapine (DMO) is one major metabolite of OLA, but its potential involvement in the metabolic responses remains unclear. Here we examined whether DMO can directly impact the metabolic, endocrinal and inflammatory parameters under conditions of metabolic disturbance. DMO administration (2 mg/kg, i.g.) to high-fat diet induced obesity mice for 4 weeks induced a remarkable loss of body weight and fat mass. DMO improved insulin resistance and energy expenditure in mice, but had no significant effects on dyslipidemia or hepatic steatosis. Moreover, DMO induced morphological changes in the white adipose tissue, accompanied by reduced interleukin-1β (IL-1β) production and increased UCP1 expression. These findings demonstrate that DMO is devoid of the metabolic side effects commonly observed for OLA during obesity, which suggests that the N-desmethyl metabolism may function to regulate the metabolic responses to OLA.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302499	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302499	obesity
Clinical biomechanics (Bristol, Avon)	External loading alters lower extremity kinetics, kinematics, and muscle activity in a distribution-specific manner during the transition from stair descent to level walking.	Increasing mass centrally and peripherally differently affects spatial-temporal gait characteristics and lower extremity joint kinematics, kinetics, and electromyography when transitioning from stair descent to level gait. Body mass distribution may be an important factor for obesity-induced biomechanical alterations and should be considered when developing biomechanical models of obesity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302492	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302492	obesity
International immunopharmacology	The prognostic role of obesity is independent of sex in cancer patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors: A pooled analysis of 4090 cancer patients.	Obesity is associated with better outcomes in cancer patients treated with ICIs, and this clinical benefit may be independent of sex.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302449	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302449	obesity
Early human development	Postoperative pain in small-for-gestational age infants after hernia repair, orchidopexy and urethral reconstruction surgery: A pilot study.	While previous studies were suggestive of a suppressed stress response to pain in SGA newborns, these findings did not fully translate into an altered response to pain beyond the newborn age. Further studies in a larger cohort seem necessary to verify this finding.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31302387	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302387	obesity
The Journal of nutritional biochemistry	Luteolin reduces adipose tissue macrophage inflammation and insulin resistance in postmenopausal obese mice.	Previously, we showed that loss of ovarian function in mice fed high-fat diet exacerbated insulin resistance and adipose tissue inflammation. In the current study, we tested whether consumption of luteolin, an anti-inflammatory flavonoid, could mitigate adipose tissue inflammation and insulin resistance in obese ovariectomized mice. Nine-week-old ovariectomized C57BL/6 mice were fed a low-fat diet, high-fat diet (HFD) or HFD supplemented with 0.005% luteolin (HFD+L) for 16 weeks. Results showed no difference in body weight or fat mass between mice fed HFD+L and those fed HFD. However, luteolin supplementation resulted in lower CD11c	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302373	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302373	obesity
Osteoarthritis and cartilage	Physical inactivity and knee osteoarthritis in guinea pigs.	Our findings indicate that a sedentary lifestyle promotes the development of knee OA, particularly by enhancing disease severity rather than risk of onset, and this potentially occurs through multiple pathways including by engendering growth of functionally deficient joint tissues and the accumulation of excess body weight and adiposity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302235	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302235	obesity
Metabolism: clinical and experimental	Epithelial sodium channels in endothelial cells mediate diet-induced endothelium stiffness and impaired vascular relaxation in obese female mice.	These data suggest that endothelial specific EnNaC activation mediates WD-induced endothelial stiffness, impaired eNOS activation, aortic fibrosis and remodeling through increased aortic oxidative stress and increased inflammation related to a reduction of AMPKα and Sirt 1 mediated eNOS phosphorylation/activation and NO production.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302199	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302199	obesity
Steroids	Chemical synthesis of 7α-hydroxycholest-4-en-3-one, a biomarker for irritable bowel syndrome and bile acid malabsorption.	7α-Hydroxy-cholest-4-en-3-one is a biomarker for bile acid loss, irritable bowel syndrome, and other diseases associated with defective bile acid biosynthesis. Furthermore, 7α-hydroxy-cholest-4-en-3-one is the physiological substrate for cytochrome P450 8B1 (P450 8B1 or CYP8B1), the oxysterol 12α-hydroxylase enzyme implicated in obesity and cardiovascular health. We report the chemical synthesis of this physiologically important oxysterol beginning with cholesterol. The key feature of this synthesis involves a regioselective C3-allylic oxidation of a 3-desoxy-Δ	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302111	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302111	obesity
Appetite	Emotion-driven impulsiveness but not decision-making ability and cognitive inflexibility predicts weight status in adults.	In this study we aimed to determine whether decision-making ability, cognitive inflexibility and emotion-driven impulsiveness are associated with weight status as expressed by body mass index (BMI), percentage body fat, waist circumference and skinfold thickness in adults from eight different European countries taking part in the I.Family study. The Bechara Gambling Task was used to assess decision-making ability (n = 1717). The Berg Card Sorting Test was used to measure cognitive inflexibility (n = 1509). Lastly, the negative urgency subscale from the UPPS-P Impulsive Behavior Scale was used to measure emotion-driven impulsiveness (n = 4450). Hierarchical regression analyses showed that more emotion-driven impulsiveness was statistically significantly associated with a higher BMI, a higher percentage body fat, and a larger waist circumference in adults, controlling for age, sex, socioeconomic status, country and binge eating; but not with skinfold thickness. Cognitive inflexibility and decision-making ability were not statistically significantly associated with any of the weight status related variables. These results support that impulsivity in response to negative emotions, but not decision-making ability or cognitive inflexibility, is associated with the susceptibility to excessive weight (as indicated by a higher BMI, a higher percentage body fat, and a larger waist circumference). In people behaving impulsively when emotional, focusing on reducing negative affect or improving coping skills is of interest in interventions targeting obesity. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: The I.Family study is registered in the ISRCTN registry (ISRCTN62310987) on February 23, 2018.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302103	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302103	obesity
Gastrointestinal endoscopy	Obesity: Core Curriculum.	This is a document prepared by the Association for Bariatric Endoscopy (ABE), a division of the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ASGE) and the ASGE Training Committee. This curriculum document contains recommendations for training and is intended for use by gastroenterology program directors and faculty, including those involved in teaching endoscopy, and trainees in gastroenterology. Although only a small proportion of gastroenterologists currently treat obesity, given the burden of disease, an urgent need exists for greater involvement of physicians from multiple specialties, including gastroenterology, to be actively involved in the care of patients with obesity. This curriculum was developed to provide an overview of the cognitive and technical content areas that gastroenterology (GI) fellows should learn pertaining to the evaluation and management of patients with obesity and to serve as a guide to published references, videos, and other available resources. Specifically, this document addresses the core concepts that all general gastroenterology fellows should acquire about lifestyle intervention; pharmacologic, endoscopic, and surgical treatments for obesity; evaluation and management of gastrointestinal comorbidities in patients with obesity; challenges associated with sedation in patients with obesity; endoscopic evaluation of postbariatric surgical anatomy; and the management of selected adverse events in patients who have had bariatric surgery. The document also suggests recommendations for those fellows who are interested in acquiring further skills in the treatment of obesity such as incorporating medical treatment of obesity in their practice or those interested in offering endoscopic bariatric therapies (EBTs), treatment of more complex bariatric surgical adverse events, or endoscopic treatment of weight regain after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB). By providing this framework to trainers and trainees, the ASGE hopes to facilitate the incorporation of this important material into training programs to ensure that trainees are adequately prepared for future professional responsibilities in this area.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302093	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302093	obesity
Sexual medicine	Effect of Bariatric Surgery on Male Sexual Function: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review.	Bariatric surgery could improve the erectile function, sexual desire, sexual intercourse satisfaction, and total satisfaction in morbidly obese men. Due to limited data on body mass index and hormone levels, our meta-analysis had some limitations. More clinical studies are needed to further explore the relationship between bariatric surgery and male sexual function. Xu J, Wu Q, Zhang Y, et al. Effect of Bariatric Surgery on Male Sexual Function: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review. Sex Med 2019;XX:XXX-XXX.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31302076	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302076	obesity
Journal of plastic, reconstructive & aesthetic surgery : JPRAS	Risk factors for postoperative wound complications after extremity soft tissue sarcoma resection: A systematic review and meta-analyses.	Despite advancements in the treatment of ESTS, postoperative complication rates remain high. Awareness of the risk factors for wound complications, especially those that may be modifiable, is essential to decrease postoperative morbidities in these patients to improve treatment outcomes and quality of life.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31302071	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302071	obesity
JACC. Heart failure	Treating Obesity in Heart Failure: A Big, Fat Void.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	United States	31302051	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302051	obesity
JACC. Heart failure	Hemodynamic Effects of Weight Loss in Obesity: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	Therapeutic weight loss in obese patients without HF is associated with favorable hemodynamic effects. Randomized controlled trials evaluating strategies for weight loss in obese patients with heart failure such as the obese phenotype of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction are needed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302042	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302042	obesity
Molecular metabolism	Evaporative cooling provides a major metabolic energy sink.	We show that mouse skins vary considerably in their heat retention properties, whether because of naturally occurring variation (SKH-1 mice), or genetic modification of the heat-retaining lipid lamellae (SCD1, DGAT1 or Agouti A	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302039	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302039	obesity
Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics	Using Latent Class Growth Modeling to Examine Longitudinal Patterns of Body Mass Index Change from Adolescence to Adulthood.	Results emphasize the importance of tracking weight longitudinally and point to a nationally representative trend of increasing BMI during the transition to adulthood. There was no substantive decreasing trend identified in the sample. Findings highlight the need for effective early and ongoing intervention and prevention strategies and can aid in identification of vulnerable youth who are at the highest risk for moving to problematic weight categories.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302035	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302035	obesity
Obesity research & clinical practice	Markers of adipose tissue inflammation are transiently elevated during intermittent fasting in women who are overweight or obese.	Unlike caloric restriction, IF transiently elevated markers of macrophage infiltration in adipose tissue and skeletal muscle, possibly in response to marked increases in adipose tissue lipolysis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302012	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302012	obesity
Molecular cell	SENP1-Sirt3 Signaling Controls Mitochondrial Protein Acetylation and Metabolism.	Sirt3, as a major mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-dependent deacetylase, is required for mitochondrial metabolic adaption to various stresses. However, how to regulate Sirt3 activity responding to metabolic stress remains largely unknown. Here, we report Sirt3 as a SUMOylated protein in mitochondria. SUMOylation suppresses Sirt3 catalytic activity. SUMOylation-deficient Sirt3 shows elevated deacetylation on mitochondrial proteins and increased fatty acid oxidation. During fasting, SUMO-specific protease SENP1 is accumulated in mitochondria and quickly de-SUMOylates and activates Sirt3. SENP1 deficiency results in hyper-SUMOylation of Sirt3 and hyper-acetylation of mitochondrial proteins, which reduces mitochondrial metabolic adaption responding to fasting. Furthermore, we find that fasting induces SENP1 translocation into mitochondria to activate Sirt3. The studies on mice show that Sirt3 SUMOylation mutation reduces fat mass and antagonizes high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity via increasing oxidative phosphorylation and energy expenditure. Our results reveal that SENP1-Sirt3 signaling modulates Sirt3 activation and mitochondrial metabolism during metabolic stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302001	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302001	obesity
Surgery for obesity and related diseases : official journal of the American Society for Bariatric Surgery	Aspiration therapy for the treatment of obesity: 4-year results of a multicenter randomized controlled trial.	The results of this midterm study have shown that AT is a safe, effective, and durable weight loss alternative for people with class II and III obesity and who are willing to commit to using the therapy and adhere to adjustments in eating behavior.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302000	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302000	obesity
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Prevalence of Stroke in Fayoum Governorate, Egypt: A Community-Based Study.	The prevalence of stroke in Fayoum governorate was 1.6%. Hypertension, diabetes, heart diseases, obesity, and smoking were reported risk factors of stroke.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301986	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301986	obesity
The lancet. Diabetes & endocrinology	Visceral and ectopic fat, atherosclerosis, and cardiometabolic disease: a position statement.	Findings from epidemiological studies over the past 30 years have shown that visceral adipose tissue, accurately measured by CT or MRI, is an independent risk marker of cardiovascular and metabolic morbidity and mortality. Emerging evidence also suggests that ectopic fat deposition, including hepatic and epicardial fat, might contribute to increased atherosclerosis and cardiometabolic risk. This joint position statement from the International Atherosclerosis Society and the International Chair on Cardiometabolic Risk Working Group on Visceral Obesity summarises the evidence for visceral adiposity and ectopic fat as emerging risk factors for type 2 diabetes, atherosclerosis, and cardiovascular disease, with a focus on practical recommendations for health professionals and future directions for research and clinical practice. We discuss the measurement of visceral and ectopic fat, pathophysiology and contribution to adverse health outcomes, response to treatment, and lessons from a public health programme targeting visceral and ectopic fat. We identify knowledge gaps and note the need to develop simple, clinically applicable tools to be able to monitor changes in visceral and ectopic fat over time. Finally, we recognise the need for public health messaging to focus on visceral and ectopic fat in addition to excess bodyweight to better combat the growing epidemic of obesity worldwide.	2019	eng	Review	England	31301983	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301983	obesity
Journal of pediatric urology	Impact of body mass index on 30-day postoperative morbidity in pediatric and adolescent patients undergoing continent urinary tract reconstruction.	Almost 30% of pediatric and adolescent patients undergoing a continent urinary tract reconstruction were overweight or obese. Obesity as determined by the BMI was not associated with 30-day postoperative morbidity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301974	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301974	obesity
