Contemporary clinical trials communications	Comparison of an ordinal endpoint to time-to-event, longitudinal, and binary endpoints for use in evaluating treatments for severe influenza requiring hospitalization.	In this case study, the FLU-IVIG ordinal endpoint provided greater power than time-to-event, binary, and longitudinal endpoints for most scenarios of the treatment effect and placebo group distribution, including the target population studied for FLU-IVIG. The ordinal endpoint was only surpassed by the time-to-event endpoint when many patients in the placebo group were on the cusp of hospital discharge on day 7 and the follow-up period for the time-to-event endpoint was extended to allow for additional events. Our general approach for evaluating the power of several potential endpoints for an influenza trial can be used for designing other influenza trials with different target populations and for other trials in other disease areas.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31312748	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312748	flu
Frontiers in immunology	Recalling the Future: Immunological Memory Toward Unpredictable Influenza Viruses.	Persistent and durable immunological memory forms the basis of any successful vaccination protocol. Generation of pre-existing memory B cell and T cell pools is thus the key for maintaining protective immunity to seasonal, pandemic and avian influenza viruses. Long-lived antibody secreting cells (ASCs) are responsible for maintaining antibody levels in peripheral blood. Generated with CD4	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312199	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312199	flu
Vaccine	Case report: Recurrent peripheral facial paralysis following two influenza vaccinations in 2009 and 2016.	A 57-year-old female experienced two successive peripheral facial paralysis (PFP) episodes following influenza immunization in 2009 and 2016 with two different vaccines. The similarity of chronology and semiology between the two events and the absence of alternative etiology plead for intrinsic accountability. Extrinsic accountability relies on previous case reports of PFP related to flu vaccination (26 cases in the French pharmacovigilance database and 4 cases in the medical literature).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31311685	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311685	flu
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	Imaging Spectrum of H1N1 Influenza from a Tertiary Liver Hospital in India: First Ever Experience.	Imaging profile of patients with H1N1 influenza revealed that patients with underlying CLD were more likely to have imaging findings, pleural effusion, lymphadenopathy, receive intensive care and longer hospital stay with increased risk for mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31311217	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311217	flu
Taiwanese journal of obstetrics & gynecology	The first case of Anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis (Anti-NMDAR encephalitis) associated with ovarian mucinous cystadenoma: A case report.	Even though anti-NMDAR encephalitis is caused by ovarian teratoma because it contains various types of tissues, ovarian tumors in anti-NMDAR encephalitis may not be limited to ovarian teratomas.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China (Republic : 1949- )	31307751	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307751	flu
The Journal of the Association of Physicians of India	A Concurrent Comparison of the Epidemiology and Clinical Presentation of Patients Hospitalized with Pandemic 2009 (H1N1) Influenza and Seasonal Influenza-A in Sub-himalayan Region of Himachal Pradesh.	The clinical features and outcomes of pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza and current circulating seasonal influenza A strains were comparable in hospitalised patients. However, since both seasonal and pandemic influenza can lead to significant morbidity and mortality, the impact of pre-existing seasonal influenza should not be underestimated during the pandemic period.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	31304711	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304711	flu
International journal of pediatrics & adolescent medicine	Knowledge, attitudes, and practice of healthcare workers toward influenza vaccination at Al Jalila Children's Specialty Hospital (AJCH), Dubai, UAE.	The healthcare workers' knowledge of influenza disease does not reflect their knowledge, attitude, and practice toward influenza vaccination. These results highlight the important predictors that must be targeted to promote hospital awareness campaigns to improve their practice and attitude, which could result in increasing seasonal influenza vaccine uptake.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31304223	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304223	flu
Journal of clinical virology : the official publication of the Pan American Society for Clinical Virology	Comparative analysis of Four sample-to-answer influenza A/B and RSV nucleic acid amplification assays using adult respiratory specimens.	Only 2 STA platforms demonstrated >95% PPA for the detection of all three targets while all the 4 platforms demonstrated >95% NPA for FluA, FluB and RSV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302479	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302479	flu
Primary care diabetes	Impact of diabetes education teams in primary care on processes of care indicators.	Onsite education teams in primary care settings can potentially improve diabetes management as shown in two process of care indicators: medical visits and foot exams. The results support the benefits of having education teams in primary care settings to increase adherence to practice guidelines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31296470	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31296470	flu
IDCases	Unusual presentation of urban leptospirosis complicated by a septic shock.	Leptospirosis, an infectious zoonosis, is common to tropical areas. The clinical presentation varies from flu-like symptoms to a serious presentation called Weil's syndrome. Fever and conjunctival suffusion are present in the majority of patients. This case report describes a resident of New York City who presented initially with gastroenteritis symptoms without fever or conjunctival suffusion to develop septic shock before being diagnosed with leptospirosis.	2019	eng	Case Reports	Netherlands	31293892	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293892	flu
Frontiers in immunology	Peptide Antiviral Strategies as an Alternative to Treat Lower Respiratory Viral Infections.	Lower respiratory infection caused by human pathogens such as influenza and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a significant healthcare burden that must be addressed. The preferred options to achieve this goal are usually to develop vaccines for prophylaxis and to develop antiviral small molecules to treat infected patients with convenient, orally administrable drugs. However, developing a vaccine against RSV poses special challenges with the diminished immune system of infants and the elderly, and finding a universal flu vaccine is difficult because the product must target a large array of viral strains. On the other hand, the use of small-molecule antivirals can result in the emergence of resistant viruses as it has well-been reported for HIV, influenza, and hepatitis C virus (HCV). This paper reviews peptide antiviral strategies as an alternative to address these challenges. The discovery of influenza and RSV peptidic fusion inhibitors will be discussed and compared to small molecules in view of escape mutations. The importance of constraining peptides into macrocycles to improve both their inhibitory activity and pharmacological properties will be highlighted.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31293570	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31293570	flu
Plant & cell physiology	Rice FLUORESCENT1 is involved in the Regulation of Chlorophyll.	Chlorophyll biosynthesis plays essential roles in photosynthesis and plant growth in response to environmental conditions. The accumulation of excess chlorophyll biosynthesis intermediates under light results in the production of reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress. In this study, we identified a rice (Oryza sativa) mutant, oxidation under photoperiod (oxp), that displayed photobleached lesions on its leaves, reduced growth, and decreased chlorophyll content during light/dark cycles or following a dark-to-light transition. The oxp mutant accumulated more chlorophyll precusors (5-aminolevulinic acid and protochlorophyllide) than the wild type in the dark, and more singlet oxygen following light exposure. Several singlet-oxygen-responsive genes were greatly upregulated in oxp, while the expression patterns of OsPORA and OsPORB, two genes encoding the chlorophyll biosynthesis enzyme NADPH:protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase, were altered in de-etiolated oxp seedlings. Molecular and complementation studies revealed that oxp is a loss-of-function mutant in LOC_Os01g32730, a homolog of fluorescent (FLU) in Arabidopsis thaliana. Rice phytochrome-interacting factor-like14 (OsPIL14) transcription factor directly bound to the OsFLU1 promoter and activated its expression. Dark-grown transgenic rice seedlings overexpressing OsPIL14 accumulated more chlorophyll and turned green faster than the wild type upon light illumination. Thus, OsFLU1 is an important regulator of chlorophyll biosynthesis in rice.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31290959	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31290959	flu
PloS one	Immune-regulatory microRNA expression levels within circulating extracellular vesicles correspond with the appearance of local symptoms after seasonal flu vaccination.	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) contain microRNAs (miRNAs) that regulate the innate immune responses, such as the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The excessive production of pro-inflammatory cytokines after vaccination can cause local adverse reactions, such as pain, itching, swelling, and redness. Previous studies have shown that circulating EV miR-451a regulates innate immune responses, and miR-451a levels in serum EVs are negatively correlated with the pro-inflammatory cytokine expression levels in response to the influenza vaccine. Since excessive pro-inflammatory cytokine production is a cause of the local adverse reactions to vaccination, we investigated whether miR-451a levels in serum EVs correlate with local symptoms at the vaccination site, such as pain, itching, swelling, and redness. Interestingly, miR-451a levels in serum EVs were inversely correlated with the number of symptoms after vaccination. We determined the level of several other immune-regulatory miRNAs in serum EVs. Using the immune-regulatory miRNA levels of miR-22, miR-29a, miR-451a, and miR-107, we calculated a normalized miRNA level for each healthy donor and found that the normalized miRNA levels were significantly correlated with the number of local symptoms after vaccination. Our data indicated that immune-regulatory miRNA levels in serum EVs can be used as biomarkers to assess local symptoms after influenza vaccination.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31287847	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31287847	flu
World journal of pediatrics : WJP	Effect of hand hygiene intervention on the absenteeism of pre-school children in Klang Valley, Malaysia: a quasi-experimental study.	These results suggest that proper education and intervention increase hand hygiene compliance, which may help decrease school absenteeism due to illness; however, a longer study duration may be necessary to evaluate the benefit further.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31286426	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31286426	flu
BMJ (Clinical research ed.)	Flu: Australia sees early start to season.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31285278	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31285278	flu
African journal of AIDS research : AJAR	Constructions of sexuality and HIV risk among young people in Venda, South Africa: implications for HIV prevention.	The study explored constructions of sexuality among young people of Venda in Limpopo, South Africa, and cultural practices that can be used to develop context-specific HIV prevention programmes. HIV prevention can be promoted by including some cultural practices in prevention programmes and changing some aspects of culture that may contribute negatively to health. Six focus group discussions were held with school-going young people (Grades 10 to 12) in urban and rural areas to explore their constructions of sexuality and HIV risk. Four focus group discussions were held with community leaders in the same areas to explore their constructions of young people's sexuality and cultural practices relevant to HIV prevention. Through discourse analysis, the following dominant discourses that influence young people's sexual risk behaviour were identified: 	2019	eng	Journal Article	South Africa	31282301	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31282301	flu
Human pathology	Immune checkpoint blocker-related sarcoid-like granulomatous inflammation: a rare adverse event detected in lymph node aspiration cytology of patients treated for advanced malignant melanoma.	Immune checkpoint inhibitors are a major breakthrough in the field of oncology. Targets for approved immune checkpoint inhibitors are cytotoxic T-lymphocytes-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death receptor 1/ programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1). Methods and Materials Five patients (four males and one female) were treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors for advanced melanoma (stage III). None of them had prior history of autoimmune disorders, AIDS, or sarcoidosis. The PET/CT imaging studies showed new onset lymphadenopathy suspicious for malignancy. Four patients had cutaneous melanoma and one had vaginal melanoma. Three patients were treated with single agent (two Nivolumab, one Ipilimumab) and two with double agents (Ipilimumab and Pembrolizumab, or Ipilimumab and Nivolumab). PET/CT showed mediastinal multistational lymphadenopathy in four cases and peri-portal lymphadenopathy in one patient. Ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy showed numerous sarcoid-like granulomatous inflammation, while the fungal and mycobacterial infections were excluded. Cytomorphologically, the granulomas were numerous, mostly large, cellular and non-necrotizing. Multi-nucleated giant were rare or not seen at all. Cell blocks did not show any fibrosis. Other adverse effects included mouth sores, flu-like symptoms, arthritis, muscle aches, skin rashes, mild and severe colitis. The treatment was stopped and patients received prednisone. One patient developed severe adrenal insufficiency, which prolonged prednisone tapering. Their condition improved and lymphadenopathy was resolved in follow-up imaging. Sarcoid-like granulomatous inflammation is an adverse event in patients treated with immune checkpoint therapy such as Ipilimumab and Nivolumab. It can present as enlarged lymph nodes in PET/CT imaging suspicious for malignancy. FNA can serve as a minimally invasive tool to investigate the underlying cause of lymphadenopathy in this subset of patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31279873	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279873	flu
Biomaterials	Silver nanoparticle-adjuvanted vaccine protects against lethal influenza infection through inducing BALT and IgA-mediated mucosal immunity.	Most of current influenza virus vaccines fail to develop a strong immunity at lung mucosae (site of viral entry) due to sub-optimal vaccination protocols (e.g. inactivated virus administered by parenteral injections). Mucosal immunity could be improved by using locally-delivered vaccines containing appropriate adjuvants. Here we show, in a mouse model, that inclusion of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) in virus-inactivated flu vaccine resulted in reduction of viral loads and prevention of excessive lung inflammation following influenza infection. Concomitantly, AgNPs enhanced specific IgA secreting plasma cells and antibodies titers, a hallmark of successful mucosal immunity. Moreover, vaccination in the presence of AgNPs but not with gold nanoparticles, protected mice from lethal flu. Compared with other commercial adjuvants (squalene/oil-based emulsion) or silver salts, AgNPs stimulated stronger antigen specific IgA production with lower toxicity by promoting bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue (BALT) neogenesis, and acted as a bona fide mucosal adjuvant.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31279103	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31279103	flu
JBJS case connector	Lytic Lesion in the Proximal Humerus After a Flu Shot: A Case Report.	SIRVA is a rare cause of shoulder pain after injections, but one that progresses and often necessitates operative management. Clinicians should be wary of persistent shoulder pain after a flu shot.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31274645	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31274645	flu
International journal of environmental research and public health	Emission Characteristics of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons and Nitro-Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons from Open Burning of Rice Straw in the North of Vietnam.	This research investigated the distribution and contribution of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and nitro-polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (NPAHs) bound to particulate matter (PM) emitted from open burning of rice straw (RS) into the atmosphere in the north of Vietnam. The experiments were conducted to collect PM	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31269756	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269756	flu
Zhonghua er ke za zhi = Chinese journal of pediatrics	[Clinical analysis of seven cases of H1N1 influenza-associated encephalopathy in children].	None	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31269554	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31269554	flu
Journal of environmental science and health. Part. B, Pesticides, food contaminants, and agricultural wastes	Controlled-release of fluazinam from biodegradable PLGA-based microspheres.	Pesticides are biological or chemical substances used to manage pests and diseases. Encapsulation of pesticides in biodegradable carriers creates a slow-release system that can improve water dispersibility and prolong residual activity. We prepared two kinds of poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid)(PLGA) nanoparticles (NPs) with polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) surfactants. These were used to encapsulate the fungicide fluazinam (Flu) against 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31264918	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31264918	flu
Research in social & administrative pharmacy : RSAP	Community pharmacists at the heart of public health: A longitudinal evaluation of the community pharmacy influenza vaccination service.	Community pharmacists are providing increasing numbers of flu vaccinations in Wales, benefitting patients in all at-risk groups and reinforcing the valuable role of pharmacists at the heart of their communities, in terms of public choice and accessibility.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31262643	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31262643	flu
Cells	Viroporins in the Influenza Virus.	Influenza is a highly contagious virus that causes seasonal epidemics and unpredictable pandemics. Four influenza virus types have been identified to date: A, B, C, and D, where only A-C are known to infect humans. Influenza A (IAV) and B (IBV) viruses are responsible for seasonal influenza epidemics in humans and are responsible for up to a billion flu infections annually. The M2 protein is present in all influenza types and belongs to the class of viroporins (i.e., small proteins that form ion channels that increase membrane permeability in virus-infected cells). In influenza A and B, AM2 and BM2 are predominantly proton channels, although they also show some permeability to monovalent cations. In contrast, M2 proteins in influenza C (ICV) and D (IDV), CM2 and DM2, appear to be especially selective for chloride ions, with possibly some permeability to protons. These differences point to different biological roles for M2 in types A and B versus C and D, which is also reflected in their sequences. AM2 is by far the best characterized viroporin, and mechanistic details and rationale of its acid activation, proton selectivity, unidirectionality and relative low conductance are just beginning to be understood. The present review summarizes the biochemical and structural aspects of influenza viroporins and discusses the most relevant aspects of function, inhibition and interaction with the host.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31261944	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31261944	flu
Health psychology : official journal of the Division of Health Psychology, American Psychological Association	Reports of social circles' and own vaccination behavior: A national longitudinal survey.	Perceived social circle vaccine coverage is associated with own vaccination behavior in the current and subsequent flu season, establishing behavior patterns that may persist into the future. People's vaccination decisions may be informed by their perceptions of their peers' beliefs and behaviors. We discuss intervention strategies for promoting vaccine uptake by counteracting negative and promoting positive perceived social norms. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2019 APA, all rights reserved).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31259597	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259597	flu
Cureus	Acute-onset Flu Encephalopathy in an Adolescent Female.	Flu encephalopathy is a rare and poorly understood complication of the influenza virus. In children, it presents most commonly in the 6-18 months age range and most often in the first 26 hours of flu symptoms. Here, we present a case of a 13-year old black female who presented with acute-onset encephalopathy two weeks into flu symptoms. As we begin this flu season, this case serves as a reminder that flu encephalopathy should be on the differential for acute-onset altered mental status.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31259103	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31259103	flu
Journal of microbiology, immunology, and infection = Wei mian yu gan ran za zhi	The safety and immunogenicity of a cell-derived adjuvanted H5N1 vaccine - A phase I randomized clinical trial.	This Phase I trial showed the MDCK-derived H5N1 candidate vaccine is safe and immunogenic. The source of RBCs has a significant impact on the measurement of HAI titers (ClinicalTrials.gov number: NCT01675284.).	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31255574	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31255574	flu
Journal of nuclear medicine : official publication, Society of Nuclear Medicine	Preclinical evaluation of 	Targeted radiopharmaceutical therapy (TRT) employing α-particle radiation is a promising approach for treating both large and micrometastatic lesions. We developed prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-targeted low-molecular-weight (LMW) agents for 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31253744	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31253744	flu
American journal of infection control	The association between history of screening for cancer and receipt of an annual flu vaccination: Are there reinforcing effects of prevention seeking?	More research is necessary to understand why cervical cancer screenings are not associated with receipt of an AFV.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31253553	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31253553	flu
American journal of infection control	Readability of influenza information online: Implications for consumer health.	When creating content for the masses, health professionals should maximize their efforts by testing the readability as well as other factors that influence the likelihood that it will be understood.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31253552	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31253552	flu
Journal of pediatric health care : official publication of National Association of Pediatric Nurse Associates & Practitioners	Taking Action on Asthma: Increasing Influenza Vaccination Rates in Pediatric Asthma Through Quality Improvement.	The SBHC program improved flu vaccination rates and targeted asthma preventative services. Additional successes included the adaptation of a vaccination campaign to 14 SBHCs, education on flu vaccination, and better electronic health record documentation of asthma severity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31253452	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31253452	flu
Cureus	Search Engine Queries for Pediatric Fever During "Cold and Flu" Season.	Introduction Pediatric fever is the most common chief complaint in patients under 15 years old. The objective of this paper is to characterize public search trends for pediatric fever in the United States using Google search engine queries. Methods and materials A cross-sectional survey of Google Trends searches for "toddler fever" was conducted from October 2018 to January 2019 during "cold and flu" season. Information collected included "Related Topics" and "Related Queries", which includes additional searches by individuals who searched for "toddler fever". Data are described in the results using Google's relative popularity. Results For this study, 91 weeks of data were queried. The median relative popularity over this time period was 65 (interquartile range, 58 - 74.5) out of 100. Individuals searching for this term also searched thematically for characterizations and descriptors of fever, types of symptoms associated with fever, and various treatments for fever. Conclusion The results of this study revealed an increased frequency of search engine queries for descriptors and qualifiers of symptoms associated with pediatric illness during the "cold and flu" season. Frequently queried terms suggest a need for increased health literacy regarding pediatric fever in the United States and may represent a need for further national educational resources.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31249742	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31249742	flu
Frontiers in immunology	Interleukin-17D Promotes Pathogenicity During Infection by Suppressing CD8 T Cell Activity.	Interleukin-17D (IL-17D) belongs to the IL-17 family of cytokines. While the members of the IL-17 family have been implicated in inflammation and host defense, the function of IL-17D remains unclear. Here, we showed that the lack of IL-17D expression confers protection against 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31244826	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31244826	flu
Journal of health communication	"Influenza" versus "Flu": Do Different Medical Terms Affect Vaccination Intention?	Confusion about disease terminology contributes to lower risk perceptions that may lead to lesser engagement in protective measures. Communication campaigns promoting influenza vaccination have become commonplace around the world. Such campaigns vary widely in their terminology used from depicting the disease and response formally as an "influenza vaccination" to more colloquial terms like "flu shot." This study gathered responses from 896 Singapore residents through an online experiment and employed a Chi-square test to assess if different medical terms describing the same preventive measure ("influenza vaccine" and "flu shot") influence vaccination intentions. Results indicate that the formal term "influenza vaccine" prompts significantly greater vaccination intention than the abbreviated colloquial term "flu shot," even when no further information about the disease or vaccine is provided. This finding suggests that the proclivity to use the less formal term "flu shot" in widespread campaigns is less advantageous in prompting intentions to vaccinate against the disease. This may be the result of an activated availability bias brought on by the distinct semantic frames. We conclude that in this instance the medical terms should not be used interchangeably and that "influenza vaccine" may be more advantageous in future communication to encourage adoption of advised health behavior.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31244399	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31244399	flu
BMC ophthalmology	Non-prescription cold and flu medication-induced transient myopia with uveal effusion: case report.	Overdose of non-prescription cold and flu medication may cause bilateral uveal effusions inducing acute angle-closure glaucoma and acute myopia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31242876	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31242876	flu
BMC infectious diseases	Correction to: "With fever it's the real flu I would say": laypersons' perception of common cold and influenza and their differences - a qualitative study in Austria, Belgium and Croatia.	.	2019	eng	Published Erratum	England	31242872	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31242872	flu
PloS one	Allergic rhinitis: Disease characteristics and coping measures in Saudi Arabia.	This study presented the disease characteristics of self-reported AR and its associated factors in Saudi Arabia. Special attention should be paid to older age groups and overweight patients who reported persistent forms of AR. Males reported more severe and persistent forms of AR.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31242201	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31242201	flu
Transboundary and emerging diseases	The matrix segment of the "Spanish flu" virus originated from intragenic recombination between avian and human influenza A viruses.	The 1918 Spanish flu virus has claimed more than 50 million lives. However, the mechanism of its high pathogenicity remains elusive; and the origin of the virus is controversial. The matrix (M) segment regulates the replication of influenza A virus, thereby affecting its virulence and pathogenicity. This study found that the M segment of the Spanish flu virus is a recombinant chimera originating from avian influenza virus and human influenza virus. The unique mosaic M segment might confer the virus high replication capacity, showing that the recombination might play an important role in inducing high pathogenicity of the virus. In addition, this study also suggested that the NA and NS segments of the virus were generated by reassortment between mammalian and avian viruses. Direct phylogenetic evidence was also provided for its avian origin.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31241237	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31241237	flu
Nagoya journal of medical science	Outbreak detection of influenza-like illness in Prey Veng Province, Cambodia: a community-based surveillance.	On June 4, 2016, the Prey Veng Provincial Health Department reported a total of 107 patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) from Chakhlanh village to the Cambodian Ministry of Health. To confirm the outbreak and evaluate its clinical and epidemiological characteristics, the investigation team visited the village and reviewed the case-based surveillance (CBS) data on severe respiratory infection (SRI) and patients' records in health facilities. The team interviewed all households in the village from May 1 to June 5, 2016 and obtained the following data: age, medical history, date of onset, treatment, symptoms, and history of contact with patients or dead poultry. Nasal swab samples were collected from suspected ILI cases to test for influenza virus by RT-PCR. The investigation detected 498 suspected ILI cases, including 288 females. Although the incidence of suspected ILI cases who visited health centers was 63.0 per 1,000 persons per month, the attack rate was 27.1 per 100 population. The major age group was 5-14 years followed by 0-4 years. Major symptoms were cough, fever, runny nose, and headache. Six of seven nasal swab samples were positive for influenza A/H1N1 pdm09 virus. Most children with flu symptoms had contact with previous cases. This study showed that the ILI outbreak might be caused by seasonal influenza A/H1N1 pdm09 spread from person to person. Poor living conditions and poor hygiene and sanitation practices were environmental factors that caused the outbreak. As the CBS system was unable to identify this epidemic, it needs to be improved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31241062	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31241062	flu
Journal of health communication	The Effect of Framed Health Messages on Intention to Take Antivirals for Pandemic Influenza: A Vignette-Based Randomised Controlled Trial.	During the last influenza pandemic, adherence to antivirals was suboptimal. This study investigated the effect of manipulating the wording of written health messages on intentions to use antivirals as prophylaxis for pandemic influenza. After reading a hypothetical pandemic flu scenario, adult UK residents (N = 216) were randomly allocated to one of the four conditions, defined by a 2 × 2 (agency assignment × attribute framing) factorial design. Each condition presented messages describing the pandemic flu using linguistic expressions that assigned agency to either humans (HA: human agency) or the virus itself (VA: virus agency), whilst describing the antivirals side effects in terms of the chances of either experiencing (NF: negative framing) or not experiencing side effects (PF: positive framing). Intentions to use the antivirals and potential mediating factors were measured. Mean adherence intentions were high in all conditions with no significant differences between them. Higher perceived susceptibility, anticipated regret, self-efficacy, trust, and low response costs were found to predict adherence intentions. The VA messages increased perceived severity, the PF messages increased self-efficacy, whilst VA*PF affected response efficacy. The evidence did not support the hypothesis that the VA and PF framings can increase adherence intentions compared to the HA and NF messages, respectively.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31241003	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31241003	flu
Indian journal of ophthalmology	Pediatric viral orbital cellulites secondary to H1N1 infection: A case report.	A 10-year-old boy admitted for high-grade fever and pneumonia developed left preseptal and early orbital cellulitis, unresponsive to higher intravenous antibiotics. He received oseltamivir, on testing positive for H1N1 virus on the nasopharyngeal and throat swabs. There was dramatic improvement with resolution of orbital cellulitis within 24 h of starting oseltamivir. We report a very rare presentation of pediatric orbital cellulitis secondary to systemic H1N1 infection. Prompt investigations and timely treatment with oseltamivir aided in complete resolution, avoiding vision and life-threatening complications.	2019	eng	Case Reports	India	31238479	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31238479	flu
JMIR public health and surveillance	Flu Outbreak Prediction Using Twitter Posts Classification and Linear Regression With Historical Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Reports: Prediction Framework Study.	The results demonstrated the efficiency and the accuracy of the proposed framework that can be used even for new outbreaks with new signs and symptoms. The classification results demonstrated that the FT-based framework improves the accuracy and the efficiency of flu disease surveillance systems that use unstructured data such as data from SNSs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31237567	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31237567	flu
Marine drugs	Metabolites of Seaweeds as Potential Agents for the Prevention and Therapy of Influenza Infection.	Influenza is a serious medical and social problem for humanity. Recently developed drugs are quite effective against currently circulating influenza virus strains, but their use can lead to the selection of resistant viral strains. In this regard, new therapeutic approaches and drugs with a broad spectrum of activity are needed. Metabolites of seaweeds fulfill these requirements. This review presents the results of in vitro and in vivo experimental and clinical studies about the effectiveness of these compounds in combating influenza infection and explains the necessity of their use as a potential basis for the creation of new drugs with a broad spectrum of activity.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31234532	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31234532	flu
Journal of toxicology and environmental health. Part A	Effects of combined exposures of fluoranthene and polyethylene or polyhydroxybutyrate microplastics on oxidative stress biomarkers in the blue mussel (	A growing interest in developing and commercialization of new eco-friendly plastic polymers is occurring attributed to the impact of marine plastics debris and microplastics that result from the degradation of oil-based polymers as these substances adversely affect ecosystem health. Recently, polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) has become of interest due to its biodegradability and physicochemical properties. However, biological consequences resulting from bioplastics exposure remain to be determined. Further, few data are apparently available regarding the potential for bioplastics to act as a vector for exogenous chemicals in the environment. The aim of the study was to compare the effects of polyethylene (PE MPs) and polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB MPs) microplastics administered alone or in combination with fluoranthene (Flu) on detoxifying enzymes in digestive glands and gills of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31232673	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31232673	flu
Frontiers in plant science	Abscisic Acid Regulates Auxin Distribution to Mediate Maize Lateral Root Development Under Salt Stress.	Roots are important plant organs. Lateral root (LR) initiation (LRI) and development play a central role in environmental adaptation. The mechanism of LR development has been well investigated in 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31231407	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31231407	flu
MMW Fortschritte der Medizin	[Flu-like disease in summer - what do we know about it?]	 	2019	ger	Review	Germany	31230309	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31230309	flu
Scientific reports	Sex ratios at birth vary with environmental harshness but not maternal condition.	The sex ratio at birth (SRB) may be patterned by maternal condition and/or environmental stressors. However, despite decades of research, empirical results from across the social and biological sciences are equivocal on this topic. Using longitudinal individual-level data from a US population during the interwar period (1918-1939), inclusive of three distinct eras (Spanish Flu, Roaring '20 s, and the Great Depression), we evaluate predictions from two theoretical frameworks used to study patterning in SRB - (1) 'frail males' and (2) adaptive sex-biased investment theory (Trivers-Willard). The first approach centers on greater male susceptibility to exogenous stressors and argues that offspring survival should be expected to differ between 'good' and 'bad' times. The second approach contends that mothers themselves play a direct role in manipulating offspring SRB, and that those in better condition should invest more in sons. In-line with 'frail male' predictions, we find that boys are less likely to be born during the environmentally challenging times of the Spanish Flu and Great Depression. However, we find no evidence that maternal condition is associated with sex ratios at birth, a result inconsistent with the Trivers-Willard hypothesis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31227750	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31227750	flu
BMJ open	Protocol for a double-blind placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of probiotics in reducing antibiotics for infection in care home residents: the Probiotics to Reduce Infections iN CarE home reSidentS (PRINCESS) trial.	ISRCTN16392920; Pre-results.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31227535	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31227535	flu
BMC public health	A systematic review of infectious illness Presenteeism: prevalence, reasons and risk factors.	Infectious illness presenteeism is common. To address the public health consequences, organisations should focus on promoting a positive working culture and developing sickness absence policies that reduce presenteeism. Further research is needed in non-health sector organisations and schools to identify risk factors related to different organisations, which can then be used to tailor interventions at the organisational and individual level.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31226966	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31226966	flu
European journal of obstetrics, gynecology, and reproductive biology	Immunizations during pregnancy: How, when and why.	Maternal immunization during pregnancy provide protection for the mother and the fetus against certain pathogens. Immunizations during pregnancy are divided to routine immunizations recommended for all pregnant women, immunizations for certain medical indications and vaccines that are potentially harmful during pregnancy and should be avoided. We conducted a comprehensive review of the literature regarding immunizations during pregnancy. The search terms used were immunization, vaccine, pregnancy, influenza, pertussis, safety and efficacy. We gathered all available guidelines on vaccination during pregnancy. Generally, vaccines are allowed during pregnancy when the benefits outweigh the risks. Tdap and inactivated flu vaccines are routinely recommended during pregnancy. Vaccines containing live attenuated viruses are contraindicated during pregnancy. These are LAIV influenza, MMR, Varicella, Zoster, BCG and smallpox pre-exposure. All other vaccines are given when medically indicated and the possible benefits outweigh the risks. Obstetricians and gynecologists should be familiar with the indications of vaccination during pregnancy. Vaccination coverage of pregnant women with routinely recommended vaccines has increased but further efforts are needed. Our aim is to review vaccination practices during pregnancy, demonstrate the benefits and dangers of different vaccines, evaluate their effectiveness and define the proper timing of vaccination.	2019	eng	Review	Ireland	31226574	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31226574	flu
Current developments in nutrition	Whole Cell Euglena Gracilis Supplementation Reduces Upper Respiratory Tract Infection Symptoms in Healthy Adults (P19-009-19).	Kemin Foods L.C.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31225396	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31225396	flu
Open forum infectious diseases	Multiple Influenza Virus Infections in 4 Consecutive Epidemiological Seasons: A Retrospective Study in Children and Adolescents.	Repetitive influenza infections in consecutive epidemiological seasons occurred quite frequently in children and adolescents. Observations like ours contribute to a better understanding of the immunity against influenza virus infections and could have implications for future vaccination strategies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31223630	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31223630	flu
Vaccine	Can routinely collected laboratory and health administrative data be used to assess influenza vaccine effectiveness? Assessing the validity of the Flu and Other Respiratory Viruses Research (FOREVER) Cohort.	Routinely collected laboratory and health administrative data contained in the FOREVER Cohort can be used to estimate influenza VE in community-dwelling older adults.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31221563	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31221563	flu
Journal of public health (Oxford, England)	Influenza in carehome residents: applying a conceptual framework to describe barriers to the implementation of guidance on treatment and prophylaxis.	Our findings highlight points in the care pathway that stakeholders can target to improve quality of care and increase the likelihood of national guidance being implemented. The principles described in this article can also be applied to other challenges of translating evidence into practice and cross-organisational working.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31220301	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31220301	flu
Journal of psychopharmacology (Oxford, England)	Impulsivity moderates the effects of dopamine D2 and mixed D1-D2 antagonists in individuals with gambling disorder.	D1 receptors appear to gauge the incentive value of gambling in GD subjects. D1 activation has negative reinforcing effects in HI gamblers and positive reinforcing effects in LI gamblers. Medications that activate D1 could curtail chasing in HI gamblers. D1 blockade could benefit HI gamblers whose main concern is craving.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31219367	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31219367	flu
Biomarkers in cancer	Following Chemotherapy: Serum Cytokine (Tumor Necrosis Factor, Interleukin-2, Interleukin-11), Immunoglobulin, Complement, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Levels, and the Systemic Symptoms like Capillary Leak Syndrome.	Several problems such as myalgia, arthralgia, fever, dyspnea, generalized edema, and pleural effusion can occur in cancer patients following the chemotherapy, especially at the first cycle of the first chemotherapy treatment. Although it is assumed that some cytokines are associated with the development of these symptoms and signs, their pathophysiology has not been discovered completely yet. They are usually mild, but they may rarely progress to the severe stage of "Systemic Capillary Leak Syndrome" with a high mortality rate. The objective of this study was to investigate the association between the serum levels of interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-11 (IL-11), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and these symptoms and signs. A total of 44 cancer patients who had neither heart, lung, liver, renal, or thyroid disease were recruited into this study. Their symptoms and signs were examined and questioned before the first cycle of the first chemotherapy treatment and the 24 h after this chemotherapy. All participant's serum samples were taken, and the VEGF, TNF, IL-2, and IL-11 levels were studied. There was no association between the chemotherapeutic drugs, and the symptoms and signs such as edema, dyspnea, coughing, and flu-like symptoms. There was a significant decrease in IL-11 levels in the other treatment group compared with the group receiving paclitaxel, docetaxel, gemcitabine, and vinorelbine in the first day following chemotherapy (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31217693	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31217693	flu
Reviews on environmental health	Agreement between parental and student reports on respiratory symptoms and school environment in young Romanian children - evidence from the SINPHONIE project.	Background Environmental research involving children often relies on the self-report or parental report of symptoms and environmental issues. While previous studies explored the agreements between child and parental reports, few of them were conducted in younger children and in developing countries. In this study, we addressed the research gaps by assessing the agreement between child and parental report on respiratory symptoms and school environment in Romanian primary schools. Methods Two hundred and eighty students from five schools and their parents participated in this study. Information on child's respiratory symptoms and perceptions of school environment was collected via both student and parent questionnaires. Agreement between the two questionnaires was assessed by absolute agreement rates and kappa statistics. Prevalence index (PI), bias index (BI) and maximum attainable kappas were calculated to identify potential sources of disagreements. Results The agreement between student and parent questionnaires was low. Compared to the student's report, parents often reported more symptoms than their children, particularly flu-like symptoms, and school environment problems. Parent and child tend to agree when there was no symptom reported, but disagreements often occurred when symptoms were reported. After adjusting for the PI, the agreements for asthma and allergic symptoms improved substantially. Disagreement on reporting of flu-like symptoms was strongly affected by pre-existing causes, such as different understandings of the questions between students and parents. Conclusion Parental report may have a higher sensitivity in capturing a child's respiratory symptoms and school environment problems compared to self-report among young children in developing countries.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31216266	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31216266	flu
Vestnik oftalmologii	[Local choroiditis after influenza vaccination (a clinical case study)].	В статье описан сложный в плане дифференциальной диагностики случай локального хориоидита, развившегося после вакцинации против гриппа у пациентки, страдающей бронхиальной астмой и находящейся на системной стероидной терапии.	2019	rus	Journal Article	Russia (Federation)	31215541	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31215541	flu
Wiener klinische Wochenschrift	Is there a clinical difference between influenza A and B virus infections in hospitalized patients? : Results after routine polymerase chain reaction point-of-care testing in the emergency room from 2017/2018.	Some differences were found between influenza A and B virus infections but symptoms were overlapping, which necessitates polymerase chain reaction point-of-care testing for accurate diagnosis. Influenza A was a more severe disease than influenza B during the period 2017/2018.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Austria	31214922	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31214922	flu
Zhongguo dang dai er ke za zhi = Chinese journal of contemporary pediatrics	[Detection of viral pathogens and allergens in infants and young children at high risk of asthma during a wheezing episode].	Early HRV infection and inhaled allergen sensitization are closely associated with the development of wheezing in infants and young children at high risk of asthma.	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31208500	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31208500	flu
International journal of environmental research and public health	Health and Environmental Risks of Residents Living Close to a Landfill: A Case Study of Thohoyandou Landfill, Limpopo Province, South Africa.	The by-products of solid waste deposited in a landfill has adverse effects on the surrounding environment and humans living closer to landfill sites. This study sought to test the hypothesis that the deposition of waste on landfill has an impact on the surrounding environment and residents living closer to it. This was achieved by evaluating the perception of the respondents drawn from people living close (100-500 m) and far (1-2 km) from the landfill site, concerning environmental issues, health problems, and life satisfaction. Results from the study showed that 78% of participants living closer to the landfill site indicated serious contamination of air quality evident from bad odours linked to the landfill site. Illnesses such as flu, eye irritation and weakness of the body were frequently reported by participants living closer to the landfill than those living far from the landfill. More than half of the participants (56%) living closer to the landfill indicated fear of their health in the future. Thus, the participants living closer to the landfill site were less satisfied with the location of their community with respect to the landfill, than those living far from the landfill site. Therefore, the need for a landfill gas (LFG) utilisation system, proper daily covering of waste and odour diluting agents are necessary to reduce the problems of the residents living closer to the landfill site.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31208082	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31208082	flu
Cureus	Severe Babesiosis Masquerading as Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura: A Case Report.	Babesiosis is an infectious disease caused by protozoa of the genus Babesia. Its incidence has been increasing in the Northeast and upper Midwest regions of the United States in recent years. Symptoms of babesiosis can range from a mild flu-like illness to acute, severe, and fatal disease. Severe disease is common in older populations and immunocompromised patients. The laboratory abnormalities associated with babesiosis, such as low hematocrit, low hemoglobin, elevated lactate dehydrogenase, low haptoglobin, reticulocytosis, the presence of schistocytes on the peripheral blood smear and thrombocytopenia, can mimic other severe systemic disorders like thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Hence, it is crucial to be aware of babesiosis, especially in highly endemic areas as it can masquerade as severe fatal systemic diseases like TTP.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31205845	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31205845	flu
Computational and mathematical methods in medicine	Continuous Readout versus Titer-Based Assays of Influenza Vaccine Trials: Sensitivity, Specificity, and False Discovery Rates.	The current gold standard for measuring antibody-based immunity to influenza viruses relies on the hemagglutinin inhibition assay (HAI), an 80-year-old technology, and the microneutralization assay (MN). Both assays use serial dilution to provide a discrete, ranked readout of 8-14 categorical titer values for each sample. In contrast to other methods of measuring vaccine antibody levels that produce a continuous readout (i.e., mPLEX-Flu and ELISA), titering methods introduce imprecision and increase false discovery rates (FDR). In this paper, we assess the degree of such statistical errors, first with simulation studies comparing continuous data with titer data in influenza vaccine study group comparison analyses and then by analyzing actual sample data from an influenza vaccine trial. Our results show the superiority of using continuous, rather than discrete, readout assays. Compared to continuous readout assays, titering assays have a lower statistical precision and a higher FDR. The results suggested that traditional titering assays could lead to increased Type-II errors in the comparison of different therapeutic arms of an influenza vaccine trial. These statistical issues are related to the mathematical nature of titer-based assays, which we examine in detail in the simulation studies. Continuous readout assays are free of this issue, and thus it is possible that comparisons of study groups could provide different results with these two methods as we have shown in our case study.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31205481	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31205481	flu
Infection	Influenza virus infection: an approach to identify predictors for in-hospital and 90-day mortality from patients in Vienna during the season 2017/18.	Older age, history of atrial fibrillation and pneumonia are associated with increased risk of influenza-associated in-hospital and 90-day mortality. Statin use may decrease 90-day mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31203513	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31203513	flu
BMC neurology	An update on Peginterferon beta-1a Management in Multiple Sclerosis: results from an interdisciplinary Board of German and Austrian Neurologists and dermatologists.	This report addresses expert recommendations on the management of most relevant adverse effects related to peginterferon beta-1a and other interferon betas, based on literature and interdisciplinary experience.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31202258	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31202258	flu
Proceedings of the ... International World-Wide Web Conference. International WWW Conference	Distributed Tensor Decomposition for Large Scale Health Analytics.	In the past few decades, there has been rapid growth in quantity and variety of healthcare data. These large sets of data are usually high dimensional (e.g. patients, their diagnoses, and medications to treat their diagnoses) and cannot be adequately represented as matrices. Thus, many existing algorithms can not analyze them. To accommodate these high dimensional data, tensor factorization, which can be viewed as a higher-order extension of methods like PCA, has attracted much attention and emerged as a promising solution. However, tensor factorization is a computationally expensive task, and existing methods developed to factor large tensors are not flexible enough for real-world situations. To address this scaling problem more efficiently, we introduce SGranite, a distributed, scalable, and sparse tensor factorization method fit through stochastic gradient descent. SGranite offers three contributions: (1) Scalability: it employs a block partitioning and parallel processing design and thus scales to large tensors, (2) Accuracy: we show that our method can achieve results faster without sacrificing the quality of the tensor decomposition, and (3) FlexibleConstraints: we show our approach can encompass various kinds of constraints including l2 norm, l1 norm, and logistic regularization. We demonstrate SGranite's capabilities in two real-world use cases. In the first, we use Google searches for flu-like symptoms to characterize and predict influenza patterns. In the second, we use SGranite to extract clinically interesting sets (i.e., phenotypes) of patients from electronic health records. Through these case studies, we show SGranite has the potential to be used to rapidly characterize, predict, and manage a large multimodal datasets, thereby promising a novel, data-driven solution that can benefit very large segments of the population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31198910	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31198910	flu
International journal of hematology	Conditioning regimen with a 75% dose of standard busulfan/cyclophosphamide plus fludarabine before cord blood transplantation in older patients with AML and MDS.	In this retrospective study, we aimed to establish a conditioning regimen for older patients receiving cord blood transplantation (CBT). This study included 21 older patients [median age 65 (58-73) years] with acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome who underwent single CBT following a conditioning regimen comprising fludarabine (FLU) 125-175 mg/m	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31197737	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31197737	flu
Demography	Regional and Racial Inequality in Infectious Disease Mortality in U.S. Cities, 1900-1948.	In the first half of the twentieth century, the rate of death from infectious disease in the United States fell precipitously. Although this decline is well-known and well-documented, there is surprisingly little evidence about whether it took place uniformly across the regions of the United States. We use data on infectious disease deaths from all reporting U.S. cities to describe regional patterns in the decline of urban infectious mortality from 1900 to 1948. We report three main results. First, urban infectious mortality was higher in the South in every year from 1900 to 1948. Second, infectious mortality declined later in southern cities than in cities in the other regions. Third, comparatively high infectious mortality in southern cities was driven primarily by extremely high infectious mortality among African Americans. From 1906 to 1920, African Americans in cities experienced a rate of death from infectious disease that was greater than what urban whites experienced during the 1918 flu pandemic.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31197611	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31197611	flu
PloS one	Sensitivity and specificity of an electronic nose in diagnosing pulmonary tuberculosis among patients with suspected tuberculosis.	The electronic-nose showed modest sensitivity and low specificity among patients with suspected PTB. To improve the sensitivity, a larger calibration group needs to be involved. With its portable form, it could be used for TB screening in remote rural areas and health care settings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31194793	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31194793	flu
Frontiers in pharmacology	Carbonyl Reduction of Flubendazole in the Human Liver: Strict Stereospecificity, Sex Difference, Low Risk of Drug Interactions.	Flubendazole (FLU), an anthelmintic drug of benzimidazole type, is now considered a promising anti-cancer agent due to its tubulin binding ability and low system toxicity. The present study was aimed at determining more information about FLU reduction in human liver, because this information has been insufficient until now. Subcellular fractions from the liver of 12 human patients (6 male and 6 female patients) were used to study the stereospecificity, cellular localization, coenzyme preference, enzyme kinetics, and possible inter-individual or sex differences in FLU reduction. In addition, the risk of FLU interaction with other drugs was evaluated. Our study showed that FLU is predominantly reduced in cytosol, and the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) coenzyme is preferred. The strict stereospecificity of FLU carbonyl reduction was proven, and carbonyl reductase 1 was identified as the main enzyme of FLU reduction in the human liver. A higher reduction of FLU and a higher level of carbonyl reductase 1 protein were found in male patients than in female patients, but overall inter-individual variability was relatively low. Hepatic intrinsic clearance of FLU is very low, and FLU had no effect on doxorubicin carbonyl reduction in the liver and in cancer cells. All these results fill the gaps in the knowledge of FLU metabolism in human.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31191322	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31191322	flu
Journal of public health (Oxford, England)	Influence of commissioned provider type and deprivation score on uptake of the childhood flu immunization.	School-based programmes achieve the highest and most consistent rates of childhood influenza vaccination. Interventions are still needed to promote more equitable uptake of the childhood influenza vaccine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31188441	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31188441	flu
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	A paediatric influenza update 100 years after the Skyros island Spanish flu outbreak.	This year marks the 100th anniversary of the 1918 Spanish flu outbreak on the Greek Aegean Sea island of Skyros, which devastated its population in less than 30 days. According to Constantinos Faltaits's annals published in 1919, the influenza attack on the island of Skyros commenced acutely 'like a thunderbolt' on the 27th of October, 1918 and was exceptionally severe and fatal. At that time, the viral cause of the influenza had not been detected, while the total number of victims of the Spanish flu outbreak has been estimated to have surpassed 50 million, worldwide. Almost one century after this Aegean Sea island's tragedy, the '4th Workshop on Paediatric Virology', organised on the 22nd of September, 2018 in Athens, Greece, was dedicated to the 100 years of the 'Spanish' flu pandemic. This review article highlights the plenary and key lectures presented at the workshop on the recent advances on the epidemiology, clinical management and prevention of influenza in childhood.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Greece	31186675	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31186675	flu
Experimental and therapeutic medicine	A literature reference on the 1918 Spanish flu outbreak.	 	2019	eng	Editorial	Greece	31186674	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31186674	flu
Tropical medicine and infectious disease	Impact of the 1918 Influenza Pandemic in Coastal Kenya.	The 1918 influenza pandemic was the most significant pandemic recorded in human history. Worldwide, an estimated half billion persons were infected and 20 to 100 million people died in three waves during 1918 to 1919. Yet the impact of this pandemic has been poorly documented in many countries especially those in Africa. We used colonial-era records to describe the impact of 1918 influenza pandemic in the Coast Province of Kenya. We gathered quantitative data on facility use and all-cause mortality from 1912 to 1925, and pandemic-specific data from active reporting from September 1918 to March 1919. We also extracted quotes from correspondence to complement the quantitative data and describe the societal impact of the pandemic. We found that crude mortality rates and healthcare utilization increased six- and three-fold, respectively, in 1918, and estimated a pandemic mortality rate of 25.3 deaths/1000 people/year. Impact to society and the health care system was dramatic as evidenced by correspondence. In conclusion, the 1918 pandemic profoundly affected Coastal Kenya. Preparation for the next pandemic requires continued improvement in surveillance, education about influenza vaccines, and efforts to prevent, detect and respond to novel influenza outbreaks.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31181715	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31181715	flu
Computational and mathematical methods in medicine	Improved Specificity and False Discovery Rates for Multiplex Analysis of Changes in Strain-Specific Anti-Influenza IgG.	We describe a statistical approach to compare absolute antibody concentrations, both within and across subjects, derived from a multidimensional measurement of IgG binding to the influenza surface receptor hemagglutinin (HA). This approach addresses a fundamental problem in the field of vaccine immunology: how to accurately compare the levels of antibodies against multiple influenza strains. The mPlex-Flu assay can simultaneously measure the concentration of IgG antibodies against up to 50 influenza strains with only ≤10  	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31178920	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31178920	flu
The American journal of emergency medicine	The transmission of the influenza virus from patient to emergency department physician: No flu for you.	Among Emergency Department providers, transmission of clinically significant Influenza illness was low.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31178249	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31178249	flu
Zhonghua yu fang yi xue za zhi [Chinese journal of preventive medicine]	[Evaluation of the influenza vaccine effectiveness among children aged 6 to 72 months based on the test-negative case control study design].	None	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	31177753	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31177753	flu
BMJ (Clinical research ed.)	Flu vaccination for staff may become contractual duty, says chief medical officer.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31175086	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31175086	flu
Journal of cancer survivorship : research and practice	Racial and socioeconomic disparities in adherence to preventive health services for ovarian cancer survivors.	Ovarian cancer survivors are receiving adequate follow-up care to be adherent to preventive health measures. Efforts to improve care coordination post-treatment may help reduce minority and low SES disparities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31172430	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31172430	flu
Digestion	Physicians' Knowledge and Application of Immunization Strategies in Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease: A Survey of the Italian Group for the Study of Inflammatory Bowel Disease.	Efforts carried out by the scientific societies are required to increase the awareness of this relevant topic among physicians.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31167191	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31167191	flu
Beilstein journal of nanotechnology	Enhanced inhibition of influenza virus infection by peptide-noble-metal nanoparticle conjugates.	The influenza ("flu") type-A virus is a major medical and veterinary health concern and causes global pandemics. The peptide "FluPep" is an established inhibitor of influenza virus infectivity in model systems. We have explored the potential for noble-metal nanoparticle conjugates of FluPep to enhance its antiviral activity and to determine their potential as a delivery platform for FluPep. FluPep ligand is FluPep extended at its N-terminus with the sequence CVVVTAAA, to allow for its incorporation into a mixed-matrix ligand shell of a peptidol and an alkanethiol ethylene glycol consisting of 70% CVVVTol and 30% HS(CH	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31165030	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31165030	flu
Nature biotechnology	Drug makers chase anti-flu pill.	 	2019	eng	News	United States	31164739	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31164739	flu
Nature structural & molecular biology	Flu transcription captured in action.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31160778	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31160778	flu
Diagnostic microbiology and infectious disease	Evaluation of the reverse transcription strand invasion based amplification (RT-SIBA) RSV assay, a rapid molecular assay for the detection of respiratory syncytial virus.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) causes acute respiratory infections. Rapid RSV diagnosis has an impact on patient management. In a newly developed molecular assay, named reverse transcription strand invasion based amplification (RT-SIBA) RSV assay, RSV RNA is reverse transcribed to cDNA and amplified and detected under isothermal reaction conditions. The performance of this assay was evaluated. Respiratory samples that tested positive (n = 81) or negative (n = 61) for RSV with the multiplex RT-PCR Anyplex II RV16 Detection Kit (Anyplex) were analyzed with the RT-SIBA assay. Discordant samples were tested with the GeneXpert Flu/RSV XC assay. Consistent results in at least 2 of the 3 methods were defined as reference standard. The RT-SIBA assay yielded a negative result for the 61 negative samples and a positive result in 71/81 (85.5%) of the Anyplex positive samples. After a resolution of discordant samples, the positive and negative percent agreement of the RT-SIBA assay were 92% and 100%, respectively. The RT-SIBA assay is a rapid molecular assay for the detection of RSV with good performance in clinical specimens.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31160164	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31160164	flu
Cell	Snatch-and-Grab Inhibitors to Fight the Flu.	Transcription of viral mRNA in cells infected with influenza viruses involves capturing and cleaving the first 10-20 nucleotides of 5' capped host mRNAs to be used as primers in viral RNA synthesis. A newly developed inhibitor of the viral endonuclease responsible for this cap-snatching shows therapeutic efficacy for the treatment of influenza. To view this Bench to Bedside, open or download the PDF.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31150614	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31150614	flu
Case reports in obstetrics and gynecology	Influenza A Viral Infection with Septic Shock in Pregnancy.	The influenza virus is RNA virus and is classified into four subtypes, influenza A, influenza B, influenza C, and influenza D. One of the subtypes of influenza A, the H1N1 strain, also known as swine flu, is especially of high risk for development of complications in pregnant women. The influenza A virus infection is difficult to diagnose clinically because its presenting symptoms are similar to those of the common cold but are more severe, last longer, and can be potentially life-threatening. This case also presented with common cold symptoms but her condition worsened later. Fortunately, obstetric health providers were vigilant enough to address the developing infection and its related complications. It was the cooperative effort of multidisciplinary team care which resulted in a favourable outcome in both mother and baby.	2019	eng	Case Reports	United States	31139480	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31139480	flu
BMC medical informatics and decision making	A statistical analysis of vaccine-adverse event data.	This article identifies certain cross-board patterns of the relationship between the vaccines and the reported adverse events or symptoms. This helps for better understanding the VAERS data, and provides a useful starting point for the development of statistical models and procedures to further analyze the VAERS data.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31138219	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31138219	flu
Journal of public health management and practice : JPHMP	Health Care Access and Receipt of Clinical Diabetes Preventive Care for Working-Age Adults With Diabetes in States With and Without Medicaid Expansion: Results from the 2013 and 2015 BRFSS.	Medicaid expansion did improve health care access but no significant improvement was found for receipt of clinical diabetes care for people with diabetes. Resources provided through Medicaid are vital for diabetes control and management.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31136523	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31136523	flu
Frontiers in immunology	Emerging Roles of Autophagy and Inflammasome in Ehrlichiosis.	Human monocytic ehrlichiosis (HME) is a potentially life-threatening tick-borne rickettsial disease (TBRD) caused by the obligate intracellular Gram-negative bacteria, 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31134081	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31134081	flu
Theriogenology	Neonatal exposure to agonists and antagonists of sex steroid receptors induces changes in the expression of oocyte-derived growth factors and their receptors in ovarian follicles in gilts.	The objective of the present study was to examine the effects of neonatal exposure to either agonists or antagonists of androgen and estrogen receptors on the expression of growth and differentiation factor 9 (GDF9) and bone morphogenetic protein 15 (BMP15) and their cognate receptors (TGFBR1, BMPR1B, and BMPR2) in ovarian follicles of adult pigs. Piglets were injected subcutaneously with testosterone propionate (TP, an androgen, at 20 mg/kg bw), flutamide (FLU, an antiandrogen, at 50 mg/kg bw), 4-tert-octylphenol (OP, an estrogenic compound, 100 mg/kg bw), ICI 182,780 (ICI, an antiestrogen, 400 μg/kg bw), or corn oil (control) between postnatal Days 1 and 10 (n = 5/group). Ovarian follicles were excised from adult pigs on Days 8-11 of the estrous cycle. The expression of GDF9, BMP15, TGFBR1, BMPR1B and BMPR2 were examined in the population of preantral and small antral ovarian follicles using real-time PCR, Western blot and immunohistochemistry. In preantral follicles, the upregulation of GDF9 mRNA and protein expression was found in pigs that were neonatally exposed to TP or FLU, while administration of TP or ICI resulted in upregulation of BMP15. TGFBR1 and BMPR2 mRNA and protein expression were upregulated in preantral follicles of adult pigs that were neonatally exposed to TP or FLU, while administration of TP or ICI resulted in upregulation of BMPR1B. In small antral follicles, the mRNA and protein for TGFBR1 and BMPR2 were upregulated, while BMPR1B was downregulated in response to neonatal OP treatment. In addition, treatment with FLU upregulated BMPR1B and BMPR2 mRNA and protein expression, while downregulated the expression of TGFBR1. Moreover, GDF9 and BMP15 were immunolocalized in oocytes and granulosa cells of preantral follicles obtained from both control and treated ovaries. TGFBR1, BMPR1B and BMPR2 receptors were observed in the oocytes and granulosa cells of preantral follicles as well as in granulosa and theca cells of small antral follicles. In conclusion, the present study demonstrated neonatal exposure to either agonists or antagonists of androgen and estrogen receptors affected GDF9 and BMP15 signalling in ovaries of adult pigs. It seems that neonatal androgen excess or deficiency may lead to the acceleration of initial follicle recruitment, while neonatal exposure to compounds with antiandrogenic and estrogenic activity may disturb small antral follicles fate. Therefore, it confirms that neonatal window is critical for programming of ovarian function in pigs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31132720	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31132720	flu
Minerva anestesiologica	vvECMO in ARDS: should the EOLIA study results change our clinical approach?	The original discouraging results of ExtraCorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) application in acute respiratory failure caused the technique to be almost abandoned. Fortunately, ECMO survived thanks to the good results obtained in neonates. The interest on ECMO renewed after the publication of the CESAR trial in 2009. The ultimate rebirth of the technique, however, was due to its use as a rescue therapy in severely hypoxemic patients untreatable with conventional methods during H1N1 flu epidemics in Australia and New Zealand. In 2018 the group of investigators led by Alain Combes designed and implemented the EOLIA study to test the efficacy of veno-venous ECMO in patients with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). This article discusses the primary and secondary results of the trial and the considerations emerged in the medical community. We will also discuss how ECMO could evolve to maximize lung protection rather than just prevent hypoxic death.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31124619	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31124619	flu
Air medical journal	It's Just the Flu.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31122592	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31122592	flu
Nature	Long-term studies will﻿ track indelible marks of first flu.	 	2019	eng	News	England	31118518	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31118518	flu
Disability and health journal	Preventive care services and health behaviors in children with fragile X syndrome.	The proportion of young people with FXS that meet basic recommendations in preventive care guidelines varies according to health condition and demographic characteristics. This proportion could be increased for some groups, particularly in the cases of influenza vaccination and physical activity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31118158	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31118158	flu
Acta haematologica	Proteomic Profiling of Signaling Networks Modulated by G-CSF/Plerixafor/Busulfan-Fludarabine Conditioning in Acute Myeloid Leukemia Patients in Remission or with Active Disease prior to Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation.	To characterize intracellular signaling in peripheral blood (PB) cells of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients undergoing pretransplant conditioning with CXCR4 inhibitor plerixafor, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), and busulfan plus fludarabine (Bu+Flu) chemotherapy, we profiled 153 proteins in 33 functional groups using reverse phase protein array. CXCR4 inhibition mobilized AML progenitors and clonal AML cells, and this was associated with molecular markers of cell cycle progression. G-CSF/plerixafor and G-CSF/plerixafor/Bu+Flu modulated distinct signaling networks in AML blasts of patients undergoing conditioning with active disease compared to nonleukemic PB cells of patients in remission. We identified AML-specific proteins that remained aberrantly expressed after chemotherapy, representing putative chemoresistance markers in AML.	2019	eng	News	Switzerland	31112940	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31112940	flu
Critical reviews in oncology/hematology	State of the art about influenza vaccination for advanced cancer patients receiving immune checkpoint inhibitors: When common sense is not enough.	Influenza vaccination is recommended for advanced cancer patients, since impaired immunity is presumed to be due not only to the tumor itself but also to immunosuppressive treatments, such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The recent advances in the systemic management of metastatic solid tumors, with the introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors for several indications in clinical practice, has re-actualized simple clinical issues, such as the vaccinal recommendations and counseling, for which common sense is not enough to support pragmatic choices. In the present review, we summarized the evidence about influenza vaccine administration during immune checkpoint blockade, emphasizing the need of prospective data to definitely guide our advices to a growing group of cancer patients.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31112887	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31112887	flu
International journal of occupational medicine and environmental health	Letter to the Editor (March 3, 2019) concerning the paper "The relationship between chronic fatigue syndrome, burnout, job satisfaction, social support and age among academics at a tertiary institution".	 	2019	eng	Letter	Poland	31112140	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31112140	flu
Nature microbiology	Direct interaction of whole-inactivated influenza A and pneumococcal vaccines enhances influenza-specific immunity.	The upper respiratory tract is continuously exposed to a vast array of potentially pathogenic viruses and bacteria. Influenza A virus (IAV) has particular synergism with the commensal bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae in this niche, and co-infection exacerbates pathogenicity and causes significant mortality. However, it is not known whether this synergism is associated with a direct interaction between the two pathogens. We have previously reported that co-administration of a whole-inactivated IAV vaccine (γ-Flu) with a whole-inactivated pneumococcal vaccine (γ-PN) enhances pneumococcal-specific responses. In this study, we show that mucosal co-administration of γ-Flu and γ-PN similarly augments IAV-specific immunity, particularly tissue-resident memory cell responses in the lung. In addition, our in vitro analysis revealed that S. pneumoniae directly interacts with both γ-Flu and with live IAV, facilitating increased uptake by macrophages as well as increased infection of epithelial cells by IAV. These observations provide an additional explanation for the synergistic pathogenicity of IAV and S. pneumoniae, as well as heralding the prospect of exploiting the phenomenon to develop better vaccine strategies for both pathogens.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31110357	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31110357	flu
BMJ open	Treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory CD19+ lymphoid disease with T lymphocytes transduced by RV-SFG.CD19.CD28.4-1BBzeta retroviral vector: a unicentre phase I/II clinical trial protocol.	Eudra CT 2016-004808-60; NCT03676504; Pre-results.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31110096	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31110096	flu
Clinical cancer research : an official journal of the American Association for Cancer Research	A Phase 1 Dose Escalation Trial of BN-CV301, a Recombinant Poxviral Vaccine Targeting MUC1 and CEA with Costimulatory Molecules.	The BN-CV301 vaccine can be safely administered to patients with advanced cancer. Further studies of the vaccine in combination with other agents are planned.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31110074	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31110074	flu
Chemosphere	Fate and bioavailability of four conazole fungicides in twelve different arable soils - Effects of soil and pesticide properties.	The objective of this study is to characterize changes in the fate, behaviour and bioavailability of four conazole fungicides - CFs (prochloraz - PRO, tebuconazole - TEB, epoxiconazole - EPO, flusilazole - FLU) in 12 diverse agricultural soils in complex microcosm systems consisting of agriculturally-used fluvisols, plants (Lactuca sativa), earthworms (Eisenia fetida) and passive samplers (SPME, Empore™ discs, silicone rubber). Due to great variability of the data and other methodological problems, the in-matrix passive samplers failed to be indicators of pore-water concentration and (bio)availability/(bio)accessibility of CFs. A dissipation of all CFs followed the first order kinetics (usually after initial lag phase) with large span of resulting half-lives (7-670 d) depending on soils and compounds. In many soils, the model revealed the ending plateau, which indicates the non-degradable or slowly-degradable residues. The half-lives and the residues were generally higher for EPO and FLU, than for PRO and TEB. Greater but slower total dissipation of CFs was observed in soils with higher percentage of organic matter. Earthworm concentrations were highest at first sampling time (14 days) and considerably decreased afterwards often resulting in PRO concentration below LOQ. Earthworm uptake was influenced by amount of organic matter and soil texture. Accumulation to lettuce roots was generally higher than to leaves and differed greatly among CFs. Concentration shoot to root ratios were generally the lowest for FLU (0.04) and highest for TEB (0.37). PRO was not detected in lettuce leaves during experiment. The study brings new results on fate and bioavailability of CFs in soils.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31108446	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31108446	flu
Chemistry (Weinheim an der Bergstrasse, Germany)	A DFT Study of the Modulation of the Antiaromatic and Open-Shell Character of Dibenzo[a,f]pentalene by Employing Three Strategies: Additional Benzoannulation, BN/CC Isosterism, and Substitution.	Dibenzo[a,f]pentalene ([a,f]DBP) is a highly antiaromatic molecule having appreciable open-shell singlet character in its ground state. In this work, DFT calculations at the B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p) level of theory were performed to explore the efficiency of three strategies, that is, BN/CC isosterism, substitution, and (di)benzoannulation of [a,f]DBP, in controlling its electronic state and (anti)aromaticity. To evaluate the type and extent of the latter, the harmonic oscillator model of aromaticity (HOMA) and aromatic fluctuation (FLU) indices were used, along with the nucleus-independent chemical shift NICS-XY-scan procedure. The results suggest that all three strategies could be employed to produce either the closed-shell system or open-shell species, which may be in the singlet or triplet ground state. Triplet states have been characterized as aromatic, which is in accordance with Baird's rule. All the singlet states were found to have weaker global paratropicity than [a,f]DBP. Additional (di)benzo fusion adds local aromatic subunit(s) and mainly retains the topology of the paratropic ring currents of the basic molecule. The substitution of two carbon atoms by the isoelectronic BN pair, or the introduction of substituents, results either in the same type and very similar topology of ring currents as in the parent compound, or leads to (anti)aromatic and nonaromatic subunits. The triplet states of all the examined compounds are also discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31107568	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31107568	flu
Frontiers in immunology	Restored and Enhanced Memory T Cell Immunity in Rheumatoid Arthritis After TNFα Blocker Treatment.	TNFα inhibitors have shaped the landscape of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) therapy with high clinical efficiency. However, their impact on T cell recall responses is not well-elucidated. We aimed to analyze the immune profiles of memory T cells in RA patients undergoing TNFα inhibitor Golimumab (GM) treatment. Frequencies of peripheral T cell subsets and cytokine expression profiles in memory T cells (T	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31105703	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31105703	flu
Frontiers in immunology	Gene Expression Signatures Associated With Immune and Virological Responses to Therapeutic Vaccination With Dendritic Cells in HIV-Infected Individuals.	The goal of HIV therapeutic vaccination is to induce HIV-specific immune response able to control HIV replication. We previously reported that vaccination with 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31105698	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31105698	flu
Internal and emergency medicine	Why can flu be so deadly? An unusual case of cardiogenic shock.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31104304	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31104304	flu
Journal of ethnopharmacology	Rhamnus prinoides (gesho): A source of diverse anti-biofilm activity.	Gesho leaf ethanol extract contains chemicals with anti-biofilm and bactericidal activities. This work lends support to the traditional use of gesho for treating topical infections and warrants further investigation into Rhamnus prinoides as a source of antibacterial and anti-biofilm agents.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31102615	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31102615	flu
European journal of clinical microbiology & infectious diseases : official publication of the European Society of Clinical Microbiology	The use of a poster to reduce expectations to receive antibiotics for a common cold.	Many doctors prescribe antibiotics for a cold, to meet patient's expectations. As a result, patient's education about antibiotics and antibiotic resistance forms a major component of the WHO's Global Action Plan on Antimicrobial Resistance. However, it is not known whether simple educational material can change a person's attitudes about antibiotic therapy. We designed three posters about antibiotic treatment for "cold and flu". Hospital inpatients answered a baseline survey and then were asked to look at one of three randomly selected posters. The posters highlighted the futility of antibiotic treatment for colds (futility), the risk of adverse drug reactions from antibiotics (harm), and the issue of antimicrobial resistance (resistance). Participants then completed a follow-up survey. Participants' expectations to receive antibiotics for a "bad cold" reduced significantly after viewing a poster (82/299, 27% expected antibiotics in the baseline survey compared with 13% in the follow-up survey, P < 0.01). Continuing expectation to receive antibiotics after viewing one of the posters was associated with expectation to receive antibiotics in the baseline survey and the strong belief that colds were caused by bacteria. Participants who viewed the resistance poster were more likely to continue to expect antibiotics than participants who viewed the futility poster (OR 2.46, 95%CI 1.16-5.20, P = 0.02). Following discussion of the study, viewing a poster reduced participants' expectations to receive antibiotics for a hypothetical cold. Changing patients' expectations to receive antibiotics using simple educational material about antibiotic futility could lead to significant reductions in antibiotic prescription for viral upper respiratory tract infections.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31102079	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31102079	flu
Journal of stroke and cerebrovascular diseases : the official journal of National Stroke Association	Flow-Diverter Stenting of Intracavernous Internal Carotid Artery Mycotic Aneurysm.	This is the first reported case in which a mycotic aneurysm refractory to the first medical treatment was treated with a Pipeline embolization device (PED), and the first case of a mycotic aneurysm from Brucella treated by endovascular therapy. A 35-year-old man presented with left eye pain and ptosis, and fever for 2 weeks. Before symptom onset, he visited Vietnam where he developed a flu-like illness; however, antibiotics were ineffective. We suspected Brucella as the most likely infectious etiology for the patient's intracavernous aneurysm. Since the aneurysm did not reduce in size following 2 weeks of antibiotic therapy, we placed a PED in the left internal carotid artery. Follow-up angiogram 4 months later showed no residual aneurysm, and cranial nerve palsies had completely resolved. From the results of this case, it appears that flow diverter stenting may be a safe and effective treatment of mycotic aneurysms of the cavernous segment of ICA.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31101401	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31101401	flu
Cell	Antibodies to a Conserved Influenza Head Interface Epitope Protect by an IgG Subtype-Dependent Mechanism.	Vaccines to generate durable humoral immunity against antigenically evolving pathogens such as the influenza virus must elicit antibodies that recognize conserved epitopes. Analysis of single memory B cells from immunized human donors has led us to characterize a previously unrecognized epitope of influenza hemagglutinin (HA) that is immunogenic in humans and conserved among influenza subtypes. Structures show that an unrelated antibody from a participant in an experimental infection protocol recognized the epitope as well. IgGs specific for this antigenic determinant do not block viral infection in vitro, but passive administration to mice affords robust IgG subtype-dependent protection against influenza infection. The epitope, occluded in the pre-fusion form of HA, is at the contact surface between HA head domains; reversible molecular "breathing" of the HA trimer can expose the interface to antibody and B cells. Antigens that present this broadly immunogenic HA epitope may be good candidates for inclusion in "universal" flu vaccines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31100267	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31100267	flu
Economics and human biology	The effects of employment on influenza rates.	The seasonal influenza virus afflicts millions of people in the U.S. population each year, imposing significant costs on those who fall ill, their families, employers, and the health care system. The flu is transmitted via droplet spread or close contact, and certain environments, such as schools or offices, promote transmission. In this paper, we examine whether increases in employment are associated with increased incidence of the flu. We use state-level data on the prevalence of the flu from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In our preferred specification, we find that a one percentage point increase in the employment rate increases the number of influenza related outpatient health care visits by 19%, and these effects are highly pronounced in the retail sector and healthcare sector, the sectors with the highest levels of interpersonal contact.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31097347	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31097347	flu
Medicine	A case report of double etiology of ecthyma gangrenosum: Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Enterococcus faecalis in an immunocompromised child occurred during influenza evolution.	This case brings into discussion a double etiology of ecthyma gangrenosum, in a previously healthy child that occurred in the evolution of influenza. The evolution was favorable under broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment and surgical excision.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31096489	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31096489	flu
Diagnostic and prognostic research	Cost implications for the NHS of using the Alere™ i Influenza A & B near patient test with nasal swabs.	The Alere™ i Influenza A & B point of care test would have greatest impact in hospitals that have extensive delays in the time to receive a result. Sensitivity analyses identified the model parameters which would have greatest effect on the result and confirmed that assumptions were conservative, i.e. did not change key results.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31093564	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31093564	flu
Current opinion in organ transplantation	Community-acquired respiratory viruses.	Antivirals against CARV in LTx recipients have not yet demonstrated reduced morbidity in randomized clinical trials. Agents against CARV under development are inhibiting viral attachment and use silencing mechanisms of viral replication. The cohort of lung transplant recipients is a focus of intense research because of the high morbidity of CARV infection and intense surveillance of LTx recipeints.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31090641	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31090641	flu
International forum of allergy & rhinology	Efficacy of fluticasone exhalation delivery system in the management of chronic rhinosinusitis: what is the evidence?	EDS-FLU is an important adjunct therapy for sinonasal inflammatory disease.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31087635	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31087635	flu
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America	Low ambient humidity impairs barrier function and innate resistance against influenza infection.	In the temperate regions, seasonal influenza virus outbreaks correlate closely with decreases in humidity. While low ambient humidity is known to enhance viral transmission, its impact on host response to influenza virus infection and disease outcome remains unclear. Here, we showed that housing Mx1 congenic mice in low relative humidity makes mice more susceptible to severe disease following respiratory challenge with influenza A virus. We find that inhalation of dry air impairs mucociliary clearance, innate antiviral defense, and tissue repair. Moreover, disease exacerbated by low relative humidity was ameliorated in caspase-1/11-deficient Mx1 mice, independent of viral burden. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that induction of IFN-stimulated genes in response to viral infection was diminished in multiple cell types in the lung of mice housed in low humidity condition. These results indicate that exposure to dry air impairs host defense against influenza infection, reduces tissue repair, and inflicts caspase-dependent disease pathology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31085641	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31085641	flu
British journal of anaesthesia	Remote ischaemic preconditioning does not modulate the systemic inflammatory response or renal tubular stress biomarkers after endotoxaemia in healthy human volunteers: a single-centre, mechanistic, randomised controlled trial.	NCT02602977.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31084985	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31084985	flu
Viruses	What's New with Flu? An Overview.	One hundred years have passed since the 1918 H1N1 pandemic, and influenza viruses continue to pose an enormous and unpredictable global public health threat [...].	2019	eng	Editorial	Switzerland	31083357	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31083357	flu
The Science of the total environment	Biodegradation of mixed polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons by pure and mixed cultures of biosurfactant producing thermophilic and thermo-tolerant bacteria.	Applicability of thermophilic and thermo-tolerant microorganisms for biodegradation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) with low water solubility is an interesting strategy for improving the biodegradation efficiency. In this study, we evaluated utility of thermophilic and thermo-tolerant bacteria isolated from Unkeshwar hot spring (India) for biodegradation of four different PAHs. Water samples were enriched in mineral salt medium (MSM) containing a mixture of four PAHs compounds (anthracene: ANT, fluorene: FLU, phenanthrene: PHE and pyrene: PYR) at 37 °C and 50 °C. After growth based screening, four potent strains obtained which were identified as Aeribacillus pallidus (UCPS2), Bacillus axarquiensis (UCPD1), Bacillus siamensis (GHP76) and Bacillus subtilis subsp. inaquosorum (U277) based on the 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis. Degradation of mixed PAH compounds was evaluated by pure as well as mixed cultures under shake flask conditions using MSM supplemented with 200 mg/L concentration of PAHs (50 mg/L of each compound) for 15 days at 37 °C and 50 °C. A relatively higher degradation of ANT (92%- 96%), FLU (83% - 86%), PHE (16% - 54%) and PYR (51% - 71%) was achieved at 50 °C by Aeribacillus sp. (UCPS2) and mixed culture. Furthermore, crude oil was used as a substrate to study the degradation of same PAHs using these organisms which also revealed with similar results with the higher degradation at 50 °C. Interestingly, PAH-degrading strains were also positive for biosurfactant production. Biosurfactants were identified as the variants of surfactins (lipopeptide biosurfactants) based on analytical tools and phylogenetic analysis of the surfactin genes. Overall, this study has shown that hot spring microbes may have a potential for PAHs degradation and also biosurfactant production at a higher temperature, which could provide a novel perspective for removal of PAHs residues from oil contaminated sites.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31082602	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31082602	flu
Antiviral research	Toll-like receptor 5 agonist flagellin reduces influenza A virus replication independently of type I interferon and interleukin 22 and improves antiviral efficacy of oseltamivir.	Influenza infections remain a burden on health care systems despite vaccination programs and marketed antiviral drugs. Immunomodulation through activation of innate sensors could represent innovative approaches to fight the flu. This study evaluated the ability of flagellin, agonist of Toll-like receptor 5 (TLR5), to control the replication of influenza A virus (IAV) in mice. First, we showed that systemic or intranasal administration of flagellin activated transcription of anti-viral genes in lung tissue. Prophylactic and therapeutic flagellin administration resulted in decreased levels of viral RNA and infectious virus in the lungs of H3N2 IAV-infected mice. The effect of the flagellin on viral replication was also observed in Ifnar	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31078648	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31078648	flu
Journal of the American Society of Cytopathology	Biphasic chest wall synovial sarcoma with epithelial pleural effusion: a diagnostic challenge.	Synovial sarcoma (SS) is a rare malignancy that most commonly involves the extremities and large joints. We describe a 67-year-old woman who presented with shortness of breath and flu-like symptoms, and a chest wall mass. On resection of the mass biphasic morphology of SS was noted, as well as confirmatory immunostains including TLE1 and bcl2. An SS18/SSX2 fusion transcript was detected by reverse transcriptase-DNA amplification. A year later, following chemotherapy, the patient developed a right-sided pleural effusion. Cytological examination of the fluid showed an epithelial population forming clusters and groups. TLE1 was positive, as well as fluorescent in situ hybridization analysis for the SS18/SSX2 fusion transcript. SS can be a challenging diagnosis in fluid-filled cavities, when the epithelial component predominates and its original biphasic quality is not seen. We discuss the diagnostic challenges of monophasic and biphasic SS, and updates to ancillary testing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31078450	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31078450	flu
Environmental management	Pharmaceutical Household Waste Practices: Preliminary Findings from a Case Study in Poland.	Pharmaceutical consumption continues to grow constantly. Unused/expired pharmaceuticals are disposed of to the municipal sewage system or waste disposal. Consequently, many countries have implemented a system of collecting pharmaceutical waste, with pharmacies playing an important role. It is important to educate consumers on rational consumption and the appropriate disposal of unused/expired pharmaceuticals and to identify the level of public awareness. Two studies were conducted in Poland to estimate the problem of collection and disposal of expired/unused pharmaceuticals. The purpose of the Survey I was to identify the scale of pharmaceutical consumption and the way pharmaceuticals are disposed of by various social groups. The Survey II was aimed to identify patients' attitudes regarding expired/unused pharmaceuticals at home. Of the respondents who participated in in Survey I, almost 74% indicated that analgesics were among the over-the-counter drugs they purchased. Group of pharmaceuticals 65% of the respondents purchased were medicines for treating flu symptoms. Almost 68% of the respondents said they usually disposed of expired pharmaceuticals in their household waste or by flushing them down the toilet. In Survey II more than 35% reported that they disposed of pharmaceuticals in the same ways. Of all respondents, ~30% returned their expired pharmaceuticals to pharmacies. Most respondents (over 65%) who participated Survey I indicated that they were aware that pharmaceutical waste can be returned to pharmacies. It should be noted that local governments are currently not obliged by law to work with or compensate pharmacies in the collection and proper disposal of unused pharmaceuticals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31076828	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31076828	flu
The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology	EDS-FLU performs differently than other nasal corticosteroids.	 	2019	eng	Letter	United States	31076091	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31076091	flu
International journal of clinical practice	Influenza vaccine: A viable option to protect pregnant women and infants from seasonal flu: A retrospective hospital-based study in India.	Immunisation with influenza vaccine in any trimester during pregnancy was found to protect the mother and infants upto 6 months of age against seasonal influenza without significant maternal adverse effects. In order to improve vaccination rates, there must be a national vaccination policy and incorporation of maternal immunisation in standard antenatal care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31074182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31074182	flu
Vaccine	Knowledge, attitudes and practices related to influenza illness and vaccination in children: Role of awareness campaigns in changing parents' attitudes toward influenza vaccination in Jordan.	Awareness about influenza illness and vaccination is insufficient, and the coverage rate of influenza vaccination in children is low in the Jordanian population. Implementing public health policies is necessary to spread knowledge about influenza illness and vaccination and to promote the practice of receiving the influenza vaccine in children. Educational campaigns are helpful in changing the attitudes of parents toward vaccinating their children against the flu.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31072734	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31072734	flu
Journal of cardiothoracic and vascular anesthesia	Activities of an ECMO Center for Severe Respiratory Failure: ECMO Retrieval and Beyond, A 4-Year Experience.	During the study period, a decreased number of patients retrieved on ECMO was observed, whereas patients transferred on ventilation increased, with an overall unchanged number of referred patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31072711	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31072711	flu
American journal of public health	The Great Flu and After: Why the Nurses?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31067091	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31067091	flu
Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	The Future of Flu: A Review of the Human Challenge Model and Systems Biology for Advancement of Influenza Vaccinology.	None	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31065546	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31065546	flu
Schweizer Archiv fur Tierheilkunde	[Vaccinovigilance: Reported adverse reactions of immunological veterinary medicinal products in 2018].	Lo scopo del sistema di notifica di vaccinovigilanza è di identificare in Svizzera gli effetti indesiderati che possono sorgere dopo l’uso di medicamenti immunologici ad uso veterinario (Mvet). Oltre agli effetti indesiderati viene inclusa una presunta insufficiente efficacia dei vaccini. L’Istituto di virologia e immunologia (IVI) è l’organismo di riferimento per la sorveglianza del sistema di notifica degli effetti indesiderati dei medicinali ad uso veterinario. Nel 2018 sono state registrate 162 notifiche di effetti indesiderati di medicinali immunologici approvati. Anche se la maggior parte delle notifiche proveniva dai detentori di autorizzazioni di commercio (79%), i veterinari hanno pure contribuito alle notifiche (18%). Cinque notifiche sono state inoltrate da privati (3%). I rapporti riguardavano principalmente i cani (43%) e in modo particolare Chihuahua e varie razze di Terrier. Altre notifiche riguardavano gatti (16%), bovini (14%) e cavalli (14%). Quest’anno vi è stato un incremento di notifiche per i gatti (+26) e per i cavalli (+23) rispetto all’anno precedente (rispettivamente 11 e 5). La maggioranza delle notifiche riguardava, nei cani, l’uso di vaccini combinati contro il cimurro, l’epatite, la parvovirosi e la parainfluenza con o senza leptospirosi mentre nei gatti la rinotracheite e la panleucopenia. Nel 29,6% di tutti i casi ricevuti, è stata considerata probabile una relazione causale tra la vaccinazione e la reazione ad essa.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Switzerland	31064736	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31064736	flu
Acta tropica	Opening Pandora's Box at the roof of the world: Landscape, climate and avian influenza (H5N1).	The purpose of this case study is to examine how environmental disruption and agricultural practices act synergistically to create a perfect storm for the spread of avian influenza. Actors in this case study include the vast permafrost landscape of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau; a wild goose that migrates over the Himalayas; the highest altitude railway in the world that traverses the plateau into Tibet; and an avian virus (H5N1). Commencing in 2001, tens of thousands of railway workers travelled to remote regions of the plateau to work on the railway. In order to feed and shelter these workers, the Chinese government established captive-bred goose farms as a source of high protein food. Beginning in 2005 and continuing in subsequent years, Qinghai Lake was the scene for the unprecedented appearance of avian influenza among migratory geese. This was a key moment in the global spread of H5N1 to poultry on three continents. Remote sensing technology suggested an ecological pathway for the transfer of avian viruses among chickens, captive-bred geese, and wild geese. Within a region experiencing rapid climate change, Qinghai Lake is warming even faster than the global average. This may relate to the persistent outbreaks of avian flu strains from Qinghai during the past twelve years. Globally, exponential increases in bird flu outbreaks are not merely a matter of chance mutations in flu viruses but also a result of antecedent social and environmental factors. The Qinghai case study provides real-world examples that bring these factors into sharp focus.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31063711	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31063711	flu
Epidemiology and infection	Estimating within-flock transmission rate parameter for H5N2 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus in Minnesota turkey flocks during the 2015 epizootic.	Better control of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) outbreaks requires deeper understanding of within-flock virus transmission dynamics. For such fatal diseases, daily mortality provides a proxy for disease incidence. We used the daily mortality data collected during the 2015 H5N2 HPAI outbreak in Minnesota turkey flocks to estimate the within-flock transmission rate parameter (β). The number of birds in Susceptible, Exposed, Infectious and Recovered compartments was inferred from the data and used in a generalised linear mixed model (GLMM) to estimate the parameters. Novel here was the correction of these data for normal mortality before use in the fitting process. We also used mortality threshold to determine HPAI-like mortality to improve the accuracy of estimates from the back-calculation approach. The estimated β was 3.2 (95% confidence interval (CI) 2.3-4.3) per day with a basic reproduction number of 12.8 (95% CI 9.2-17.2). Although flock-level estimates varied, the overall estimate was comparable to those from other studies. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the estimated β was highly sensitive to the bird-level latent period, emphasizing the need for its precise estimation. In all, for fatal poultry diseases, the back-calculation approach provides a computationally efficient means to obtain reasonable transmission parameter estimates from mortality data.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31063119	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31063119	flu
Epidemiology and infection	Disgust as an emotional driver of vaccine attitudes and uptake? A mediation analysis.	Research on the drivers of vaccine acceptance has expanded but most interventions fall short of coverage targets. We explored whether vaccine uptake is driven directly or indirectly by disgust with attitudes towards vaccines acting as a possible mediator. An online cross-sectional study of 1007 adults of the USA via Amazon's Mechanical Turk was conducted in January 2017. The questionnaire consisted of four sections: (1) items assessing attitudes towards vaccines and vaccine uptake, (2) revised Disgust Scale (DS-R) to measure Disgust Sensitivity, (3) Perceived Vulnerability to Disease scale (PVD) to measure Germ Aversion and Perceived Susceptibility, and (4) socio-demographic information. Using mediation analysis, we assess the direct, the indirect (through Vaccine Attitudes) and the total effect of Disgust Sensitivity, Germ Aversion and Perceived Susceptibility on 2016 self-reported flu vaccine uptake. Mediation analysis showed the effect of Disgust Sensitivity and Germ Aversion on vaccine uptake to be twofold: a direct positive effect on vaccine uptake and an indirect negative effect through Vaccine Attitudes. In contrast, Perceived Susceptibility was found to have only a direct positive effect on vaccine uptake. Nonetheless, these effects were attenuated and small compared to economic, logistic and psychological determinants of vaccine uptake.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31063117	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31063117	flu
Epidemiology and infection	Developing influenza and respiratory syncytial virus activity thresholds for syndromic surveillance in England.	Influenza and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) are common causes of respiratory tract infections and place a burden on health services each winter. Systems to describe the timing and intensity of such activity will improve the public health response and deployment of interventions to these pressures. Here we develop early warning and activity intensity thresholds for monitoring influenza and RSV using two novel data sources: general practitioner out-of-hours consultations (GP OOH) and telehealth calls (NHS 111). Moving Epidemic Method (MEM) thresholds were developed for winter 2017-2018. The NHS 111 cold/flu threshold was breached several weeks in advance of other systems. The NHS 111 RSV epidemic threshold was breached in week 41, in advance of RSV laboratory reporting. Combining the use of MEM thresholds with daily monitoring of NHS 111 and GP OOH syndromic surveillance systems provides the potential to alert to threshold breaches in real-time. An advantage of using thresholds across different health systems is the ability to capture a range of healthcare-seeking behaviour, which may reflect differences in disease severity. This study also provides a quantifiable measure of seasonal RSV activity, which contributes to our understanding of RSV activity in advance of the potential introduction of new RSV vaccines.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31063101	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31063101	flu
Epidemiology and infection	Rates of asymptomatic respiratory virus infection across age groups.	Respiratory viral infections are a leading cause of disease worldwide. A variety of respiratory viruses produce infections in humans with effects ranging from asymptomatic to life-treathening. Standard surveillance systems typically only target severe infections (ED outpatients, hospitalisations, deaths) and fail to track asymptomatic or mild infections. Here we performed a large-scale community study across multiple age groups to assess the pathogenicity of 18 respiratory viruses. We enrolled 214 individuals at multiple New York City locations and tested weekly for respiratory viral pathogens, irrespective of symptom status, from fall 2016 to spring 2018. We combined these test results with participant-provided daily records of cold and flu symptoms and used this information to characterise symptom severity by virus and age category. Asymptomatic infection rates exceeded 70% for most viruses, excepting influenza and human metapneumovirus, which produced significantly more severe outcomes. Symptoms were negatively associated with infection frequency, with children displaying the lowest score among age groups. Upper respiratory manifestations were most common for all viruses, whereas systemic effects were less typical. These findings indicate a high burden of asymptomatic respiratory virus infection exists in the general population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31063096	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31063096	flu
Journal of theoretical biology	Are we prepared for the next influenza pandemic? Lessons from modelling different preparedness policies against four pandemic scenarios.	In the event of a novel influenza strain that is markedly different to the current strains circulating in humans, the population have little/no immunity and infection spreads quickly causing a global pandemic. Over the past century, there have been four major influenza pandemics: the 1918 pandemic ("Spanish Flu"), the 1957-58 pandemic (the "Asian Flu"), the 1967-68 pandemic (the "Hong Kong Flu") and the 2009 pandemic (the "Swine flu"). To inform planning against future pandemics, this paper investigates how different is the net-present value of employing pre-purchase and responsive- purchased vaccine programmes in presence and absence of anti-viral drugs to scenarios that resemble these historic influenza pandemics. Using the existing literature and in discussions with policy decision makers in the UK, we first characterised the four past influenza pandemics by their transmissibility and infection-severity. For these combinations of parameters, we then projected the net-present value of employing pre-purchase vaccine (PPV) and responsive-purchase vaccine (RPV) programmes in presence and absence of anti-viral drugs. To differentiate between PPV and RPV policies, we changed the vaccine effectiveness value and the time to when the vaccine is first available. Our results are "heat-map" graphs displaying the benefits of different strategies in pandemic scenarios that resemble historic influenza pandemics. Our results suggest that immunisation with either PPV or RPV in presence of a stockpile of effective antiviral drugs, does not have positive net-present value for all of the pandemic scenarios considered. In contrast, in the absence of effective antivirals, both PPV and RPV policies have positive net-present value across all the pandemic scenarios. Moreover, in all considered circumstances, vaccination was most beneficial if started sufficiently early and covered sufficiently large number of people. When comparing the two vaccine programmes, the RPV policy allowed a longer timeframe and lower coverage to attain the same benefit as the PPV policy. Our findings suggest that responsive-purchase vaccination policy has a bigger window of positive net-present value when employed against each of the historic influenza pandemic strains but needs to be rapidly available to maximise benefit. This is important for future planning as it suggests that future preparedness policies may wish to consider utilising timely (i.e. responsive-purchased) vaccines against emerging influenza pandemics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31059716	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31059716	flu
Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series B, Biological sciences	A brief history of bird flu.	In 1918, a strain of influenza A virus caused a human pandemic resulting in the deaths of 50 million people. A century later, with the advent of sequencing technology and corresponding phylogenetic methods, we know much more about the origins, evolution and epidemiology of influenza epidemics. Here we review the history of avian influenza viruses through the lens of their genetic makeup: from their relationship to human pandemic viruses, starting with the 1918 H1N1 strain, through to the highly pathogenic epidemics in birds and zoonoses up to 2018. We describe the genesis of novel influenza A virus strains by reassortment and evolution in wild and domestic bird populations, as well as the role of wild bird migration in their long-range spread. The emergence of highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses, and the zoonotic incursions of avian H5 and H7 viruses into humans over the last couple of decades are also described. The threat of a new avian influenza virus causing a human pandemic is still present today, although control in domestic avian populations can minimize the risk to human health. This article is part of the theme issue 'Modelling infectious disease outbreaks in humans, animals and plants: approaches and important themes'. This issue is linked with the subsequent theme issue 'Modelling infectious disease outbreaks in humans, animals and plants: epidemic forecasting and control'.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31056053	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31056053	flu
Environmental research	Prenatal polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons metabolites, cord blood telomere length, and neonatal neurobehavioral development.	Our data indicates maternal urinary specific PAH metabolites are inversely associated with neonatal neurobehavioral development and cord blood TL. TL mediates the associations of 2-OH Phe with neonatal neurobehavioral development and partly explains the effect of 2-OH Phe on neonatal neurobehavioral development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31055168	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31055168	flu
Clinical and experimental pharmacology & physiology	Fulminant type 1 diabetes: The clinical and continuous glucose monitoring characteristics in Chinese patients.	The purpose of the current study was to investigate the clinical characteristics of fulminant type 1 diabetes mellitus (FT1DM) in Chinese patients and to further determine their glycaemic profiles through continuous glucose monitoring (CGM). Thirty subjects who were diagnosed with FT1DM according to the 2012 JDS criteria were enrolled. Clinical characteristics were compared to those reported in Japanese FT1DM. All subjects received retrospective CGM for 3 days after being converted to subcutaneous insulin injection therapy. Chinese FT1DM patients presented with a shorter duration of symptoms (2.84 ± 2.42 days vs 4.4 ± 3.1 days, P < 0.01), worse islet function (fasting C-peptide, 0.09 ± 0.11 ng/mL vs 0.30 ± 0.21 ng/mL; 2-hour C-peptide, 0.13 ± 0.14 ng/mL vs 0.30 ± 0.30 ng/mL, both P < 0.01), lower prevalence of flu-like symptoms (46.7% vs 71.4%, P < 0.05), and a significantly higher GADA positive rate (23.3% vs 5.1%, P < 0.01) when compared with Japanese patients. The CGM results showed that the mean time in range (TIR) of FT1DM patients was 49.8 ± 22.1%, while mean amplitude of glycaemic excursion (MAGE) and standard deviations of sensor glucose (SDSG) were 7.58 ± 3.59 mmol/L and 3.19 ± 1.22 mmol/L, respectively, with nearly 1/3 participants coefficient of variation (CV) > 36% (all are male), suggesting a large glucose fluctuation. The female patients were further divided into pregnancy-related FT1DM (PF) and non-PF (NPF) subgroups (both n = 5), and we found that PF patients had a significantly higher TIR than NPF patients (77.0 ± 16.1% vs 41.0 ± 22.4%, P < 0.05). There were heterogeneities in the clinical characteristics of FT1DM patients, and the CGM results indicated a very low TIR and large glucose fluctuation which needs careful attention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Australia	31050819	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31050819	flu
Molecular and cellular endocrinology	Paracrine/autocrine control of spermatogenesis by gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone.	Control of testicular development is multifactorial and involves a number of hypothalamic, hypophyseal and peripheral hormones. Here, we investigated direct action of zebrafish gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (zGnih) which is expressed in the testis, on spermatogenesis in zebrafish, in vitro. Treatment with zGnih at the lower doses (10 and 100 nM) inhibited gonadotropin-induced spermatids/spermatozoa (SPD/SPZ) production. However, at the highest dose (1000 nM), zGnih increased basal number of SPD/SPZ and showed paradoxical effect. The effects of zGnih on testosterone and SPD/SPZ production was blocked in the presence of androgen receptor antagonist, flutamide (FLU). A number of transcripts were also measured to better understand zGnih mechanisms of action on zebrafish spermatogenesis. Our results provide strong support for the hypothesis that locally produced zGnih is a component of the complex multifactorial system that regulates testicular development and function in adult zebrafish, in part, by changes in testicular steroidogenesis and regulation of gonadotropin-induced response.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31048005	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31048005	flu
Journal of virological methods	Analytical performances of the BD Veritor™ System for the detection of respiratory syncytial virus and influenzaviruses A and B when used at bedside in the pediatric emergency department.	This study aims to evaluate the analytical performance of the BD Veritor™ rapid diagnostic assays (RDTs) for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and influenzaviruses when performed 24/7 at bedside by nurses in the pediatric emergency department (PED). The study was performed between 14/10/2015 and 19/03/2016 on nasopharyngeal aspirates (NPAs) collected from children consulting at the PED of the University Hospital of Saint-Etienne for bronchiolitis (RSV detection) or flu-like syndrome (influenzaviruses A/B detection). NPAs were tested 24/7 at the PED with the RDT and then sent to the Infectious Agents Department for routine analyses, first by immunofluorescence assay (IFA), then by nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) considered as the gold standard in case of discrepancy between RDT and IFA results. For RSV detection, 205 NPAs was analyzed; the overall concordance between RDT and routine assays was of 97.6% (200/205). The sensitivity (Se), specificity (Sp), negative predictive value (NPV) and positive predictive value (PPV) were of 97.6% (160/164), 97.6% (40/41), 90.9% (40/44) and 99.4% (160/161), respectively. A total of 419 NPA was tested for influenzaviruses. For influenzavirus A, the overall concordance was of 98.8% (414/419); Se, Sp, NPV and PPV were of 100% (41/41), 98.7% (373/378), 100% (373/373) and 89.1% (41/46), respectively. For influenzavirus B, the overall concordance was of 97.9% (410/419); Se, Sp, NPV and PPV were of 96.6% (172/178), 98.8% (238/241), 97.5% (238/244) and 98.3% (172/175), respectively. Due to their excellent performances and their easy handle by non-laboratory personnel, these RDTs can be warmly recommended as point of care assays at the PED.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31047969	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31047969	flu
Journal of preventive medicine and hygiene	The Spanish Influenza Pandemic: a lesson from history 100 years after 1918.	In Europe in 1918, influenza spread through Spain, France, Great Britain and Italy, causing havoc with military operations during the First World War. The influenza pandemic of 1918 killed more than 50 million people worldwide. In addition, its socioeconomic consequences were huge. "Spanish flu", as the infection was dubbed, hit different age-groups, displaying a so-called "W-trend", typically with two spikes in children and the elderly. However, healthy young adults were also affected. In order to avoid alarming the public, several local health authorities refused to reveal the numbers of people affected and deaths. Consequently, it was very difficult to assess the impact of the disease at the time. Although official communications issued by health authorities worldwide expressed certainty about the etiology of the infection, in laboratories it was not always possible to isolate the famous Pfeiffer's bacillus, which was, at that time, deemed to be the cause of influenza. The first official preventive actions were implemented in August 1918; these included the obligatory notification of suspected cases and the surveillance of communities such as day-schools, boarding schools and barracks. Identifying suspected cases through surveillance, and voluntary and/or mandatory quarantine or isolation, enabled the spread of Spanish flu to be curbed. At that time, these public health measures were the only effective weapons against the disease, as no vaccines or antivirals were available. Virological and bacteriological analysis of preserved samples from infected soldiers and other young people who died during the pandemic period is a major step toward a better understanding of this pandemic and of how to prepare for future pandemics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31041413	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31041413	flu
Journal of chromatography. A	Analysis of four antidepressants in plasma and urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry combined with sensitive and selective derivatization.	A sensitive and selective method was developed for simultaneous determination of four antidepressants (ATDs) in plasma and urine samples by gas chromatography- mass spectrometry (GC-MS) based on an N-nitrosation reaction. In this study, fluoxetine (Flu), nortriptyline (Nor), maprotiline (Map), and paroxetine (Paro) were first derivatized with sodium nitrite to appropriate N-nitrosamines under acidic condition, then the derivatives were easier to detect by GC-MS. The derivatization conditions including the amount of hydrochloric acid, the amount of sodium nitrite, reaction temperature, reaction time and the extraction reagents were optimized. Under the optimal conditions, the limit of detections (LODs) and limit of quantitations (LOQs) were in the range of 0.04-1.38 μg L	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31040033	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31040033	flu
The Journal of antimicrobial chemotherapy	Antibiotic prescribing for common infections in UK general practice: variability and drivers.	Large variability in antibiotic prescribing between practices and within practices was observed. Prescribing guidelines alone do not positively influence a change in prescribing, suggesting more targeted interventions are required to optimize antibiotic prescribing in the UK.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31038162	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31038162	flu
Tropical medicine and infectious disease	Tuberculosis as a Risk Factor for 1918 Influenza Pandemic Outcomes.	Tuberculosis (TB) mortality declined after the 1918 pandemic, suggesting that influenza killed those who would have died from TB. Few studies have analyzed TB as a direct risk factor for 1918 influenza morbidity and mortality by age and sex. We study the impacts of TB on influenza-like illness (% of population sick) and case fatality (% of cases dying) by age and sex through case-control comparisons of patients (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31035651	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31035651	flu
Spectrochimica acta. Part A, Molecular and biomolecular spectroscopy	Spectrophotometric strategies for the analysis of binary combinations with minor component based on isoabsorptive point's leveling effect: An application on ciprofloxacin and fluocinolone acetonide in their recently delivered co-formulation.	Comparative study of the spectrophotometric strategies utilizing the isoabsorptive point present in overlapped absorption spectra of ciprofloxacin and fluocinolone acetonide in their recently delivered co-formulation, was presented. Four spectrophotometric approaches were developed, dependent on the determination of the leveling effect of isoabsorptive point in their zero order absorption spectra or its manipulated form ratio spectra as it retains an isosbestic point. The proposed strategy was based on determination of the total concentrations of the proposed drugs at iso-point, either via zero order or ratio spectra, while one of the recommended methods determined the concentration of the major component, so the concentration of the minor component was obtained by differentiation. The first, second and third methods are utilizing isoabsorptive point at zero order absorption spectrum to quantify total concentration of the cited component, while the major component could be selectively determined using either absorbance at its maxima (IsoP	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31035129	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31035129	flu
Future microbiology	Copolymeric micelles as efficient inert nanocarrier for hypericin in the photodynamic inactivation of 	None	2019	eng	Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't	England	31033353	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31033353	flu
Revista espanola de salud publica	[Design and validation of a questionnaire on the attitudes of health professionals towards the official recommendation of influenza vaccination].	Se dispone de un cuestionario con suficientes garantías de fiabilidad y validez interna para evaluar las actitudes de los profesionales sanitarios hacia la recomendación oficial de la vacunación antigripal.	2019	spa	Validation Studies	Spain	31032822	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31032822	flu
Revista espanola de salud publica	[Effectiveness of annual flu vaccination until week four of season 2018/2019].	La vacuna de la gripe 2018-19 es efectiva para prevenir los casos de gripe en pacientes ingresados hasta la semana 4 de la temporada 2018-2019. Los resultados son preliminares y podrían variar, por lo que deberán reevaluarse al final de la temporada.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31032821	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31032821	flu
Journal of chromatography. B, Analytical technologies in the biomedical and life sciences	Novel coordination imprinted polymer monolithic column applied to the solid-phase extraction of flumequine from fish samples.	In this study, a coordination imprinted polymer (CIP) solid-phase extraction (SPE) method was developed to determine the residues of flumequine (FLU) in fish samples. Silanized graphene oxide-doped CIP (SGO-CIP) monolithic column was prepared using FLU-Zn	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31029034	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31029034	flu
The Nursing clinics of North America	Seasonal Influenza (Flu).	Seasonal influenza, or flu, is an airborne respiratory virus that occurs every year in the fall to early spring in the United States. The virus is highly contagious and symptoms can run from mild to severe. In some populations (very young, individuals with chronic comorbid conditions, immunocompromised individuals of all ages, pregnant women, and frail older adults), the virus can lead to increased morbidity and mortality. In a majority of cases, seasonal influenza is preventable through safe and readily available vaccinations.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31027663	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31027663	flu
Journal of environmental management	Emissions of non-CO	Livestock production, an important source for non-CO	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31026801	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31026801	flu
Journal of preventive medicine and hygiene	Influenza vaccination coverage and deprivation among the elderly in the municipality of Cagliari: results and perspectives.	The correlation between low vaccination coverage and socio-economic deprivation not only underlines the important role of vaccination in safeguarding health, but also the fact that it can be considered a factor in ensuring the system's equality, thanks to its role in limiting health impacts on those living in the most problematic or disadvantaged circumstances. It also stresses the characteristics which contribute to low compliance. Therefore, this finding should be taken into account in the organization of vaccination campaigns and should prompt differentiated interventions in each local area.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31016269	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31016269	flu
Zhongguo dang dai er ke za zhi = Chinese journal of contemporary pediatrics	[Clinical effect of fluticasone propionate, montelukast sodium and ketotifen in treatment of cough variant asthma in children].	For children with CVA, a combination of Flu, Mon and Ket has a better clinical effect than a combination of two drugs and a single drug at 2 months of treatment and is safe. After 3 months of treatment, Flu or Mon alone has a similar effect to drug combination. Ket alone has a poor clinical effect and a high recurrence rate after drug withdrawal.	2019	chi	Randomized Controlled Trial	China	31014435	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31014435	flu
PloS one	Regional level influenza study based on Twitter and machine learning method.	The significance of flu prediction is that the appropriate preventive and control measures can be taken by relevant departments after assessing predicted data; thus, morbidity and mortality can be reduced. In this paper, three flu prediction models, based on twitter and US Centers for Disease Control's (CDC's) Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) data, are proposed (models 1-3) to verify the factors that affect the spread of the flu. In this work, an Improved Particle Swarm Optimization algorithm to optimize the parameters of Support Vector Regression (IPSO-SVR) was proposed. The IPSO-SVR was trained by the independent and dependent variables of the three models (models 1-3) as input and output. The trained IPSO-SVR method was used to predict the regional unweighted percentage ILI (%ILI) events in the US. The prediction results of each model are analyzed and compared. The results show that the IPSO-SVR method (model 3) demonstrates excellent performance in real-time prediction of ILIs, and further highlights the benefits of using real-time twitter data, thus providing an effective means for the prevention and control of flu.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31013324	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31013324	flu
Open forum infectious diseases	Mandatory Flu Vaccine for Healthcare Workers: Not Worthwhile.	In 2010, the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology published a recommendation that annual influenza vaccination of healthcare workers be made a condition of employment despite no high-level evidence to support this recommendation. A better strategy for reducing the transmission of respiratory viruses in the healthcare setting would be to encourage vaccination and reduce presenteeism, which is very common among healthcare workers with influenza-like illness. In a hospital with a baseline vaccination compliance of 70%, reducing presenteeism by 2% has the equivalent impact of mandating vaccination in terms of the number of healthcare workers with influenza-like illness at work. Expectations for compliance with interventions to improve the quality of care should be correlated tightly to the underlying evidence to support the intervention, reserving mandates for interventions with very high quality supporting evidence.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31011587	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31011587	flu
Ecotoxicology and environmental safety	Simultaneous determination of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and their chlorinated derivatives in grilled foods.	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are unintentionally generated in foods that are cooked, and dietary ingestion of these PAHs is regarded as the dominant route of exposure to PAHs. Some chlorinated PAHs (ClPAHs) are more toxic than their corresponding parent PAHs and can also be generated in food during cooking. Knowledge of the concentrations of ClPAHs in cooked foods has been limited by the lack of an adequate analytical method for measuring ClPAH concentrations in cooked foods. In this study, we developed an analytical method for simultaneous determination of PAHs and ClPAHs in lipid-rich foods. The combination of a potassium hydroxide silica gel column and an activated carbon cartridge enabled us to simultaneously measure PAH and ClPAH concentrations in raw and grilled fish and meats. Twelve kinds of PAHs (e.g., fluorene [Fle], phenanthrene [Phe], fluoranthene [Flu], and pyrene [Pyr]) were detected in grilled foods. The concentrations ranged from below the limit of quantitation (<LOQ) to 310 ng g	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31009924	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31009924	flu
PloS one	Unreliable usage of a single influenza virus IgM antibody assay in influenza-like illness: A retrospective study of the 2016-2018 flu epidemic.	We retrospectively analyzed serum IgM antibodies (Abs) to influenza viruses from two tertiary hospitals in Beijing from December 2016 to February 2018. Samples from 36,792 patients, aged 0-98 years, were collected and tested. Among the patients, 923 children from two winter flu seasons were assayed with both antigens and IgM Abs to Flu A and Flu B and assigned as paired groups. Another 2,340 adults and 1,978 children with only antigen tested in the 2016 and 2017 winter flu seasons were named as unpaired groups. IgM Abs-positivity rates in children were 0.80% and 36.57% for Flu A and Flu B, respectively, peaking at 4-5 years of age. For adults, the Flu A and Flu B IgM Abs-positivity rates were 10.34% and 21.49%, respectively, peaking at 18-35 years of age. The trend of temporal distribution between the children and the adults was significantly correlated for IgM Abs to Flu B, but not for Flu A. Compared with unpaired groups, the detection rate of Flu A antigen was significantly higher than IgM Abs in children, whereas frequencies of IgM Abs were higher than antigen in adults. Incidence of Flu B antigen was sharply increased in 2017 winter than in the 2016 winter in both children and adults, but no concomitant increase was observed in IgM Abs to Flu B. For paired children groups, incidence of Flu B antigen in the 2017 flu season was significantly higher than that in the 2016 flu season; in contrast, positive rates of IgM Abs in the 2017 flu season were even lower than those in 2016. Considering antigen detection may reflect the Flu A/Flu B epidemic, our results indicate single-assayed IgM Abs were less effective in the diagnosis of acute influenza virus infection, and the use of this assay for epidemiology evaluations was not supported by these findings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31009494	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31009494	flu
Italian journal of food safety	Farm products' direct sale in accordance with national and EC Regulations.	Primary production has always been considered the weak link in the entire food production chain (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31008080	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31008080	flu
Canada communicable disease report = Releve des maladies transmissibles au Canada	Fifteen years post-SARS: Key milestones in Canada's public health emergency response.	This year marks the 15th anniversary of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in Canada and the 100th anniversary of the 1918 Spanish influenza pandemic. These, and other recent public health events, provide an opportunity for us to review and reflect on the evolution of Canada's public health emergency response over the past 15 years-from SARS, to the 2009 H1N1 pandemic influenza, to Ebola virus and Zika virus disease. Key lessons have been learned and milestones achieved that have shaped and sharpened our response approach and structures. While SARS was a wake-up-call to strengthen infection prevention and control capacity in health care settings and led to the formation of the Public Health Agency of Canada, it also strengthened our Federal/Provincial/Territorial (FPT) senior-level governance and led to agreements for pan-Canadian mutual aid and infectious disease information sharing. As well, our collective public health laboratory capacity has been strengthened through ongoing response and sharing of advanced diagnostics and research. As we move forward, it will be important to explore the design of scalable or modular emergency response strategies and structures that are socio-culturally appropriate and employ evidence-based strategic risk communications that continue to be critical, especially given the volume and spread of misinformation. With the current global reality, we must recognize that public health threats that go unchecked anywhere in the world have the potential to very rapidly become a public health threat in Canada. We need to build, maintain and share our best public health practices globally, for we neglect these at our peril.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31007618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31007618	flu
Journal of central nervous system disease	Targeting the Blood-Brain Barrier to Prevent Sepsis-Associated Cognitive Impairment.	Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory disease resulting from an infection. This disorder affects 750 000 people annually in the United States and has a 62% rehospitalization rate. Septic symptoms range from typical flu-like symptoms (eg, headache, fever) to a multifactorial syndrome known as sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE). Patients with SAE exhibit an acute altered mental status and often have higher mortality and morbidity. In addition, many sepsis survivors are also burdened with long-term cognitive impairment. The mechanisms through which sepsis initiates SAE and promotes long-term cognitive impairment in septic survivors are poorly understood. Due to its unique role as an interface between the brain and the periphery, numerous studies support a regulatory role for the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in the progression of acute and chronic brain dysfunction. In this review, we discuss the current body of literature which supports the BBB as a nexus which integrates signals from the brain and the periphery in sepsis. We highlight key insights on the mechanisms that contribute to the BBB's role in sepsis which include neuroinflammation, increased barrier permeability, immune cell infiltration, mitochondrial dysfunction, and a potential barrier role for tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP). Finally, we address current drug treatments (eg, antimicrobials and intravenous immunoglobulins) for sepsis and their potential outcomes on brain function. A comprehensive understanding of these mechanisms may enable clinicians to target specific aspects of BBB function as a therapeutic tool to limit long-term cognitive impairment in sepsis survivors.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31007531	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31007531	flu
The protein journal	The Relevance of Glutathione Reductase Inhibition by Fluoxetine to Human Health and Disease: Insights Derived from a Combined Kinetic and Docking Study.	Glutathione reductase (GR) is a homodimeric enzyme playing an important role in the regeneration of the central antioxidant molecule reduced glutathione (GSH) from oxidized glutathione (GSSG) at the expense of a molecule of NADPH. GSH scavenges and eliminates superoxide and hydroxyl radicals non-enzymatically or serves as an electron donor for several enzymes. Fluoxetine (FLU), a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is widely prescribed in the treatment of major depressive disorder. Here, using enzyme kinetic studies and molecular docking simulations, we aimed at disclosing the mechanistic and structural aspects of the interaction between GR and FLU. Affecting enzyme activity in a dose-dependent manner, FLU was shown to be a moderately potent (IC	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31004256	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31004256	flu
Molecular pharmaceutics	Evaluation of PSMA-Targeted PAMAM Dendrimer Nanoparticles in a Murine Model of Prostate Cancer.	The prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is a validated target for detection and management of prostate cancer (PC). It has also been utilized for targeted drug delivery through antibody-drug conjugates and polymeric micelles. Polyamidoamine (PAMAM) dendrimers are emerging as a versatile platform in a number of biomedical applications due to their unique physicochemical properties, including small size, large number of reactive terminal groups, bulky interior void volume, and biocompatibility. Here, we report the synthesis of generation 4 PSMA-targeted PAMAM dendrimers [G4(MP-KEU)] and evaluation of their targeting properties in vitro and in vivo using an experimental model of PC. A facile, one-pot synthesis gave nearly neutral nanoparticles with a narrow size distribution of 5 nm in diameter and a molecular weight of 27.3 kDa. They exhibited in vitro target specificity with a dissociation constant ( K	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31002252	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31002252	flu
JPMA. The Journal of the Pakistan Medical Association	Management of Swine Flu: New Approaches - Letter To Editor.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Pakistan	31000879	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31000879	flu
American journal of public health	The Eighteen of 1918-1919: Black Nurses and the Great Flu Pandemic in the United States.	This article examines the role of Black American nurses during the 1918-1919 influenza pandemic and the aftermath of World War I. The pandemic caused at least 50 million deaths worldwide and 675 000 in the United States. It occurred during a period of pervasive segregation and racial violence, in which Black Americans were routinely denied access to health, educational, and political institutions. We discuss how an unsuccessful campaign by Black leaders for admission of Black nurses to the Red Cross, the Army Nurse Corps, and the Navy Nurse Corps during World War I eventually created opportunities for 18 Black nurses to serve in the army during the pandemic and the war's aftermath. Analyzing archival sources, news reports, and published materials, we examine these events in the context of nursing and early civil rights history. This analysis demonstrates that the pandemic incrementally advanced civil rights in the Army Nurse Corps and Red Cross, while providing ephemeral opportunities for Black nurses overall. This case study reframes the response to epidemics and other public health emergencies as potential opportunities to advance health equity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30998410	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30998410	flu
Journal of oncology pharmacy practice : official publication of the International Society of Oncology Pharmacy Practitioners	Evaluation of appropriate use of bisphosphonates and denosumab in patients with cancer.	Opportunities have been identified to optimize management of patients with cancer-related bone disease. Implementation of standardized tools may increase the rate of appropriate screening and initiation of bone-modifying therapy when warranted.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30997870	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30997870	flu
Industrial health	Chronic pesticide mixture exposure including paraquat and respiratory outcomes among Colombian farmers.	This study explored the potential association between chronic exposure to pesticide mixtures including paraquat and respiratory outcomes among Colombian farmers. Sociodemographic and occupational data, respiratory symptoms and spirometric data were collected. Paraquat in spot urine samples were quantified with solid-phase extraction high-performance liquid chromatography. Multiple Poisson regressions with robust variance were used to determine factors associated with respiratory outcomes. Profiles of pesticide mixtures used were identified among 217 farmworkers, but profenofos and methamidophos-based mixtures were more frequent. Chronic paraquat exposure was slightly associated with self-reported asthma (PR: 1.06; 95% CI 1.00 to 1.13). Different pesticide mixtures were associated with flu, thoracic pain, allergic rhinitis, and obstructive pattern in spirometry. Although acute exposure to paraquat is low among Colombian farmers participating in the study, associations between respiratory outcomes and chronic pesticide mixtures exposure including profenofos, methamidophos or glyphosate require further specific studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	30996154	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30996154	flu
BMC health services research	Healthcare professionals' knowledge, attitude and acceptance of influenza vaccination in Saudi Arabia: a multicenter cross-sectional study.	The acceptance of and participation in influenza vaccination by HCPs in Saudi Arabia appears to have markedly increased in the 2016 season. Continuing evaluation of vaccination practices is necessary, and more training programs are needed in the future.	2019	eng	Multicenter Study	England	30992004	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30992004	flu
Ecotoxicology and environmental safety	Effects of dissolved humic acid on fluoroquinolones sorption and retention to kaolinite.	Fluoroquinolones (FQs) are widely used in human and veterinary medicaments, and as such are ubiquitous environmental contaminants. Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is widely distributed in natural water and sediment and dissolved humic acid (DHA) is a major component of DOM. The coexistence of DHA might influence the sorption, migration and transformation of FQs, thus determining their environmental fate. In this study, the interaction of DHA and ofloxacin (OFL)/flumequine (FLU) was evaluated using dialysis-bag assays. The sorption of OFL and FLU to kaolinite in the presence of DHA under different pH conditions was investigated. The results revealed that the binding affinities of FQs to DHA were weakened with increasing pH from 4.0 to 10.0 due to the increased negative charge of DHA and subsequent electrostatic repulsion. Sorption experiments indicated that co-precipitation was an important mechanism for OFL/FLU removal from the aqueous phase under acidic conditions. At pH 7.0, the affinity of OFL-DHA/FLU-DHA to kaolinite was weaker than that of OFL/FLU thus suppressed its sorption. At pH 9.5, the affinity of OFL-DHA to kaolinite was stronger than that of OFL and consequently promoted its sorption, but there was no observed effect of DHA on FLU sorption. During desorption, DHA could bind to OFL/FLU and promote its desorption from kaolinite at neutral pH. In binary solute systems of OFL and FLU, OFL was a more effective competitor for the sorption sites of kaolinite than FLU.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	30991246	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30991246	flu
Drugs	Efficacy and Safety of Mipomersen: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Clinical Trials.	Despite favourable effects on the lipid profile, some concerns are reinforced from the safety profile. As a matter of fact, mipomersen therapy is more likely discontinued and associated with increased risk of injection-site reactions, hepatic steatosis, hepatic enzyme elevation, and flu-like symptoms.	2019	eng	Review	New Zealand	30989634	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30989634	flu
International journal of women's health	Knowledge, utilization and barriers of pregnant women to influenza vaccine in primary health care centers in Dammam and Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia, 2017-2018.	The low influenza vaccine uptake due to misconceptions about the associated side effects calls for active awareness programs not only for pregnant women and the general public but also for health care providers in Saudi Arabia. This will not only raise the awareness and utilization of influenza vaccine but also prevent severe illness and complications in mothers and their fetuses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	30988642	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30988642	flu
Biomedical and environmental sciences : BES	Cis-2-dodecenoic Acid Mediates Its Synergistic Effect with Triazoles by Interfering with Efflux Pumps in Fluconazole-resistant Candida albicans.	The synergistic effects of BDSF and azoles may be useful as an alternative approach to control azole-resistant Candida infections.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	30987694	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30987694	flu
Journal of thrombosis and haemostasis : JTH	An assay to measure levels of factor Xa inhibitors in blood and plasma.	The assay is ideal for rapidly and accurately measuring DOAC levels in plasma and blood, demonstrating its potential for point-of-care applications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30985986	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30985986	flu
Indian journal of dermatology	Bacillus Calmette-Guerin Immunotherapy for Recurrent Multiple Warts: An Open-Label Uncontrolled Study.	Intralesional BCG immunotherapy is a safe, effective, and promising treatment modality for recurrent multiple warts.	2019	eng	Journal Article	India	30983619	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30983619	flu
Journal of hazardous materials	Glucocorticoid mixtures of fluticasone propionate, triamcinolone acetonide and clobetasol propionate induce additive effects in zebrafish embryos.	Many synthetic glucocorticoids from medical applications occur in the aquatic environment. Whether they pose a risk for fish health is poorly known. Here we investigate effects of glucocorticoids fluticasone propionate (FLU) and triamcinolone acetonide (TRI) as single steroids and as ternary mixtures with clobetasol propionate (CLO) in zebrafish embryos. Exposure to FLU and TRI in a range of concentrations between 0.099 and 120.08 μg/L led to concentration-related decrease in muscle contractions and increase in heart rate at 0.98 and 1.05 μg/L, respectively, and higher. Genes encoding for proteins related to glucose metabolism (g6pca, pepck1), immune system regulation (fkbp5, irg1l, socs3, gilz) and matrix metalloproteinases mmp-9 and mmp-13 showed expressional alterations, as well as genes encoding for the progestin receptor (pgr) and corticosteroid dehydrogenase (hsd11b2). FLU accelerated hatching and led to embryotoxicity (immobilization and edema). Ternary mixtures (FLU + TRI + CLO) induced the same physiological and toxicological effects at concentrations of individual glucocorticoids of 11.1-16.37 μg/L and higher. Heart rate was increased in the mixture at concentrations as low as 0.0885-0.11 μg/L of each steroid. Glucocorticoids in mixtures showed additive activity; the fold-changes of transcripts of 19 target genes were additive. Together, our data show that glucocorticoids act additively and their joint activity may be of concern for developing fish in contaminated environments.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	30981015	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30981015	flu
International journal for vitamin and nutrition research. Internationale Zeitschrift fur Vitamin- und Ernahrungsforschung. Journal international de vitaminologie et de nutrition	No Association between Vitamin D and Acute Respiratory Tract Infections Amongst Elite New Zealand Rugby Players and Rowers.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30973311	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30973311	flu
Monaldi archives for chest disease = Archivio Monaldi per le malattie del torace	Management of severe Falciparum malaria on a mission: A case report.	A sailor for forty-two years, in military service on the Italian aircraft carrier, while on a mission in sub-Saharan Africa, came to a physician due to fatigue with a fever, flu-like illness and headache for 6 days. The temperature was 38.8°C, BP 80/145 mmHg and RR 30/min. The oxygen saturation was 88%, while the patient was breathing room air. Laboratory findings showed that WBC count and platelet counts were greatly reduced. Blood smears were positive for Plasmodium falciparum malaria with more than 10 parasites per field. It began immediately antimalarial treatment. After 24 hours the patient showed a 50% reduction in parasitemia but continued to have tachypnoea, dyspnea and hypoxemia. A chest TC scan was then performed that revealed a right basal alveolar consolidation with bilateral pleural effusion. The patient was ultimately diagnosed with pneumonia and malaria (overlap syndrome). The patient began antibiotic and steroid therapy. After two days the fever was gone away and the clinical condition of the patient was greatly improved. The clinical overlap between pneumonia and malaria has important implications for case management strategies and their treatment should be integrated into community case management activities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	30968670	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30968670	flu
CMAJ : Canadian Medical Association journal = journal de l'Association medicale canadienne	World must prepare for inevitable flu pandemic, says WHO.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	30962203	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30962203	flu
Journal of the Royal Society, Interface	Mechanistic insights into the effect of humidity on airborne influenza virus survival, transmission and incidence.	Influenza incidence and seasonality, along with virus survival and transmission, appear to depend at least partly on humidity, and recent studies have suggested that absolute humidity (AH) is more important than relative humidity (RH) in modulating observed patterns. In this perspective article, we re-evaluate studies of influenza virus survival in aerosols, transmission in animal models and influenza incidence to show that the combination of temperature and RH is equally valid as AH as a predictor. Collinearity must be considered, as higher levels of AH are only possible at higher temperatures, where it is well established that virus decay is more rapid. In studies of incidence that employ meteorological data, outdoor AH may be serving as a proxy for indoor RH in temperate regions during the wintertime heating season. Finally, we present a mechanistic explanation based on droplet evaporation and its impact on droplet physics and chemistry for why RH is more likely than AH to modulate virus survival and transmission.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30958176	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30958176	flu
Macromolecular rapid communications	Syndioselective Polymerization of Vinylnaphthalene.	Coordination polymerizations of 1-vinylnaphthalene (1VN), 2-vinylnaphthalene (2VN) and 6-methoxy-2-vinylnaphthalene (MVN) are carried out at room temperature by using the half-sandwich scandium precursor FluSiMe	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	30951219	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30951219	flu
Biomeditsinskaia khimiia	[Modeling and theoretical analysis of ring specific mimicry in view of isomerism within medicinal promising oligomers of "DIVEMA"].	Geterotsikly, rodstvennye furanu ili piranu, igraiut bazovuiu rol' v strukturnykh zven'iakh nukleinovykh kislot (NK) i polisakharidov (PS), v sushchestvennoĭ mere opredeliaia ikh funktsional'nye osobennosti. Riad takikh osobennosteĭ, imeiushchikh prakticheskoe znachenie dlia meditsiny, udaetsia imitirovat' s pomoshch'iu mimikrii polimerov sinteticheskikh. Formirovanie skhodnykh tsiklo-izomernykh struktur vozmozhno, v chastnosti, v protsesse svobodno-radikal'noĭ tsiklosopolimerizatsii divinilovogo éfira (DVÉ) i maleinovogo angidrida (MA). Obrazuiushchiesia produkty (DVÉMA) obshcheĭ formuly [DVÉ(MA)-cher-MA]n sluzhat prekursorami obshirnogo semeĭstva vodorastvorimykh proizvodnykh s shirokim spektrom biologicheskoĭ aktivnosti, vkliuchaia induktsiiu interferona, immunostimuliruiushchuiu i priamuiu protivovirusnuiu zashchitu. V sviazi s étim vazhno znat', kakovo sootnoshenie razlichnykh geterotsiklicheskikh izomerov v ostove étikh soedineniĭ i kakova ikh rol' v realizatsii tekh ili inykh vidov nabliudaemoĭ aktivnosti. Imeiushchiesia éksperimental'nye dannye (IaMR, IK i dr.), vvidu neodnoznachnosti ikh interpretatsii, ne pozvoliali priĭti k iasnoĭ otsenke izomernogo sostava DVÉMA. Poétomu v dannoĭ rabote provedeno nezavisimoe kvantovo-khimicheskoe issledovanie s analizom kineticheskikh (énergiia aktivatsii) i termodinamicheskikh (éntal'piia) prioritetov konkurentnoĭ izomerizatsii tsepi v protsesse sinteza. Rassmotrena sistema reaktsiĭ v maksimal'nom diapazone gipoteticheski dopustimykh variatsiĭ dvukh urovneĭ parno-razvetvlennoĭ regioselektivnosti: chetyre konkuriruiushchikh marshruta v posledovatel'nostiakh chetyrekh tipov élementarnykh reaktsiĭ formirovaniia zven'ev tsepi, razlichnykh po strukturnoĭ izomerii. Po kazhdomu iz marshrutov uchten poshagovyĭ genezis shesti khiral'nykh tsentrov (64 stereoizomerov) – do 256 izomernykh variatsiĭ summarno. Ékonomichnyĭ rezhim tochnykh raschetov obespechivalsia metodami B3LYP/6-31G(d), M06-2X/6-311+G(d), M06-2X/6-31+G(2df,p), proshedshimi predvaritel'nuiu selektsiiu na model'nykh test-sistemakh. V rezul'tate detal'no izuchen mekhanizm, kriticheskie tochki i faktory vozmozhnoĭ reguliatsii izomernogo sostava DVÉMA. Ustanovlen dostatochno uzkiĭ interval naibolee veroiatnykh énantiomerov v riadu vysoko konkurentnykh sub-marshrutov 5-ékzo- i 6-éndo- tsiklizatsii. Poluchennye rezul'taty neobkhodimy dlia adekvatnogo modelirovaniia (doking/molekuliarnaia dinamika) proizvodnykh DVÉMA vo vzaimodeĭstviiakh s biopolimernymi misheniami v tseliakh razvitiia imeiushchegosia zadela po dizaĭnu i sintezu vysokoéffektivnykh agentov kombinirovannoĭ protivovirusnoĭ zashchity (ot VICh, grippa, gerpesa i dr. infektsiĭ).	2019	rus	Journal Article	Russia (Federation)	30950818	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30950818	flu
American journal of cancer research	Repositioning antipsychotic fluphenazine hydrochloride for treating triple negative breast cancer with brain metastases and lung metastases.	Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients have a high risk of brain metastases. This deadly disease represents a major challenge for successful treatment, in part because of the poor ability of drugs to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Antipsychotic drugs show good bioavailability in the brain, and some of them have exhibited anticancer effects in several cancer types. In this study, we investigated the potential of repurposing fluphenazine hydrochloride (Flu) for the treatment of TNBC and the brain metastases. Our data showed that Flu inhibited survival of metastatic TNBC cells. It induced G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and promoted mitochondria-mediated intrinsic apoptosis 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30949404	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30949404	flu
Journal of virological methods	Clinical evaluation of multiplex RT-PCR assays for the detection of influenza A/B and respiratory syncytial virus using a high throughput system.	Compared with CE-IVD assays, the assay evaluated here showed good analytical and clinical sensitivity and specificity with broad coverage of different virus strains. It offers high-throughput capacity with low hands-on time, facilitating the laboratory management of large respiratory outbreaks.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	30946852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30946852	flu
JMIR public health and surveillance	Improved Real-Time Influenza Surveillance: Using Internet Search Data in Eight Latin American Countries.	We demonstrate here that a self-correcting machine learning method, leveraging Internet-based disease-related search activity and historical flu trends, has the potential to produce reliable and timely flu estimates in multiple Latin American countries. This methodology may prove helpful to local public health officials who design and implement interventions aimed at mitigating the effects of influenza outbreaks. Our methodology generally outperforms both the now-discontinued tool GFT, and autoregressive methodologies that exploit only historical flu activity to produce future disease estimates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	30946017	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30946017	flu
Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics	B-cell restriction - an alternative piece to the puzzle.	Effective vaccination is based on three critical aspects of the B-cell response towards infectious agents: (i) that B-cells can generate specific antibodies towards a vast molecular diversity of antigens; proteins, sugars, DNA and lipids. There seems to be no limit to the ability to raise antibodies to everything. (ii) once stimulated, B-cells can perfect their antibodies through affinity maturation to complement every nook and cranny of the epitope and (iii) that the pathogen remains genetically stable and does not change to any great extent. Thus, antibodies produced against the vaccine and subsequent boosts recognize the viral virulent field isolates in future encounters and effectively knock them out. However, some vaccine targets, such as flu virus and HIV, are extremely genetically dynamic. The rapid genetic drift of these viruses renders them moving targets which assist in their ability to evade immune surveillance. Here we postulate that in the case of hyper-variable pathogens the B-cell response actually might be "too good". We propose that restricting B-cell activities may prove effective in counteracting the genetic diversity of variant viruses such as flu and HIV. We suggest two levels of "B-cell restriction": (i) to focus the B-cell response exclusively towards neutralizing epitopes by creating epitope-based immunogens; (ii) to restrict affinity maturation of B-cells to prevent the production of overly optimized exquisitely specific antibodies. Together, these "B-cell restrictions" provide a new modality for vaccine design.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30945969	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30945969	flu
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Severe Illnesses Associated with Outbreaks of Respiratory Syncytial Virus and Influenza in Adults.	Both RSV and Flu outbreaks were associated with surges in MAARI-related advanced medical outcomes (hospitalization, intensive care unit admission, intubated mechanical ventilation and death) for adults of all ages.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30944930	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30944930	flu
Cell reports	Therapeutic Monoclonal Antibodies for Ebola Virus Infection Derived from Vaccinated Humans.	We describe therapeutic monoclonal antibodies isolated from human volunteers vaccinated with recombinant adenovirus expressing Ebola virus glycoprotein (EBOV GP) and boosted with modified vaccinia virus Ankara. Among 82 antibodies isolated from peripheral blood B cells, almost half neutralized GP pseudotyped influenza virus. The antibody response was diverse in gene usage and epitope recognition. Although close to germline in sequence, neutralizing antibodies with binding affinities in the nano- to pico-molar range, similar to "affinity matured" antibodies from convalescent donors, were found. They recognized the mucin-like domain, glycan cap, receptor binding region, and the base of the glycoprotein. A cross-reactive cocktail of four antibodies, targeting the latter three non-overlapping epitopes, given on day 3 of EBOV infection, completely protected guinea pigs. This study highlights the value of experimental vaccine trials as a rich source of therapeutic human monoclonal antibodies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30943399	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30943399	flu
Evidence-based complementary and alternative medicine : eCAM	None	The plant species 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30941185	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30941185	flu
Journal of biomedical informatics	Social network analysis for better understanding of influenza.	Analyses of geographic distribution of hospitalized patients with Influenza and demographic characteristics of populations, help us to make better planning and management of resources for Influenza patients, that require hospitalization. Obtained results could potentially help to save many lives and improve the health of the population.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30940598	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30940598	flu
Pharmaceutics	Drop-On-Powder 3D Printing of Tablets with an Anti-Cancer Drug, 5-Fluorouracil.	This study reports the first case of an innovative drop-on-powder (DoP) three-dimensional (3D) printing technology to produce oral tablets (diameters of 10 mm and 13 mm) loaded with an anticancer model drug, 5-fluorouracil (FLU). For this study, a composition of the powder carrier containing CaSO₄ hydrates, vinyl polymer, and carbohydrate was used as the matrix former, whereas 2-pyrrolidone with a viscosity like water was used as a binding liquid or inkjet ink. All tablets were printed using a commercial ZCorp 3D printer with modification. The resultant tablets were subject to coating with various polymeric solutions containing the drug. The composition of the polymeric solutions was adjusted at drug: polymer(s) 1:1 (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30939760	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30939760	flu
Current opinion in organ transplantation	Community-acquired respiratory viruses.	Antivirals against CARV in LTx recipients have not yet demonstrated reduced morbidity in randomized clinical trials. Agents against CARV under development are inhibiting viral attachment and use silencing mechanisms of viral replication. The cohort of lung transplant recipients is a focus of intense research because of the high morbidity of CARV infection and intense surveillance of LTx recipeints.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30939491	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30939491	flu
JDR clinical and translational research	Oral Health Literacy, Preventive Behavior Measures, and Chronic Medical Conditions.	The purpose of this study was to examine the association between oral health literacy, preventive orientation and behaviors, and chronic medical conditions-specifically, hypertension and diabetes. A cross-sectional study was conducted with dental school patients attending the dental clinics in Los Angeles, California, and Baltimore, Maryland. Their health literacy levels were measured using the short Test of Functional Health Literacy in Adults (Short-TOFHLA) and the Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Medicine and Dentistry (REALM-D). The medical history and existing medical conditions-specifically, hypertension and diabetes status-were extracted from patient health history and electronic records. Ten items were asked about preventive behaviors (e.g., brushing teeth in evening, smoking, exercise, drinking soda) and 3 preventive health services (dental checkup, flu shot, medical checkup). Six locus of control items were asked (e.g., good health is a matter of good fortune, what happens to my health is God's will). Out of 793 subjects, 221 had a documented history of hypertension, 88 with diabetes. There was an association between Short-TOFHLA scores and both diabetes and hypertension, but after controlling for sociodemographic and preventive variables, the association was no longer significant. In multivariate analysis, women, people with at least some college, Asians or non-Hispanic Whites, younger people, those who spoke English as a child, those who sought health information from the Internet or health care professionals, and those who smoked reported lower utilization of preventive health services, and those who had less locus of control reported higher Short-TOFHLA scores. There were no significant differences in mean REALM-D scores between patients who had hypertension or diabetes versus not having the condition. Multivariate models showed that people with higher REALM-D scores had at least some college, were other race/ethnicity or non-Hispanic White, spoke English as a child, and sought health information via the Internet. Knowledge Transfer Statement: The results of this study show that dental school patients exhibit a range of health literacy abilities and preventive behaviors, and health literacy measures positively correlated with some preventive behaviors but not others. Dental schools receive a significant number of patients with chronic diseases, and students should be educated to use effective patient communication skills to reinforce positive health behaviors among these patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30938606	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30938606	flu
Asian journal of neurosurgery	Burden of Dengue-related Neurosurgical Emergencies during an Epidemic: A Tertiary Care Experience.	Dengue is one of the most common flavivirus infections which can manifest from common flu-like fever to fatal hemorrhagic complication. Epidemics of dengue return every year with peaks during the rainfall claiming substantial number of lives in the tropical and subtropical regions of the world. We present manifestations of dengue in patients who underwent neurosurgery in a tertiary referral center during such an epidemic. There were total four patients referred for neurosurgical intervention as sequelae to dengue coagulopathy. Among them, three had intracranial bleeds and one had spinal cord hematoma along with intracranial hemorrhages. This small series includes the youngest reported case of dengue coagulopathy with intracranial bleed and only the second case of spontaneous intraspinal hematoma sequelae to dengue hemorrhagic fever. The situations where patients contract dengue in a setting of neurosurgical intervention are grave. The margin of safety in the presence of dengue coagulopathy is narrow. The surgeon has to outweigh benefit against risk of surgery in each individual.	2019	eng	Case Reports	India	30937037	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30937037	flu
Tropical medicine and infectious disease	Evaluation of a Virus Neutralisation Test for Detection of Rift Valley Fever Antibodies in Suid Sera.	Rift Valley fever (RVF) is a vector-borne viral disease of ruminants mainly, and man, characterized by abortions and neonatal deaths in animals and flu-like to more severe symptoms that can result in death in humans. The disease is endemic in Africa, Saudi Arabia and Yemen, and outbreaks occur following proliferation of RVF virus (RVFV) infected mosquito vectors. Vertebrate animal maintenance hosts of RVFV, which serve as a source of virus during inter-epidemic periods remain unknown, with wild and domestic suids being largely overlooked. To address this, we evaluated the virus neutralization test (VNT) for RVF antibody detection in suid sera, as a first step in assessing the role of suids in the epidemiology of RVF in Africa. Testing of experimental and field sera from domestic pigs and warthogs with a commercial RVF competitive antibody ELISA, served as a reference standard against which the VNT results were compared. Results indicate that VNT can detect anti-RVFV antibodies within three days post-infection, has an analytical specificity of 100% and diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of 80% and 97%, respectively. Although labour-intensive and time-consuming, the VNT proved suitable for screening suid sera and plasma for presence of RVFV antibodies in viraemic and recovered animals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30934604	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30934604	flu
Daru : journal of Faculty of Pharmacy, Tehran University of Medical Sciences	Genus Sideritis, section Empedoclia in southeastern Europe and Turkey - studies in ethnopharmacology and recent progress of biological activities.	The species of genus Sideritis, section Empedoclia have been used by local people as herbal tea and in traditional medicine since long time ago. People are taking advantage of the high species diversity and are aware of their useful properties. Much more information is available on the biological activities of the target species than on their traditional uses. Most species demonstrate various biological activities and are of substantial interest for further studies on their pharmacological properties and their potential for pharmacy and medicine. Graphical abstract Schematic illustration of traditional uses and biological activities of some Sideritis species. Arrows with different colors represent biological activities of different species. The species and their corresponding color can be seen at the right part of the figure. The colors correspond also to the squares placed in the different parts of human body.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30927208	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30927208	flu
BMC bioinformatics	Detecting virus-specific effects on post-infection temporal gene expression.	Transcriptome response to virus infection is dynamic. MPTGA which leverages temporal gene expression traits showed increased power in detecting biologically relevant virus-specific effects comparing with conventional t-test method.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30925863	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30925863	flu
Molecules (Basel, Switzerland)	Cube-Related Corner Coalesced Nets.	Finite or periodic structures containing the cube motif can be synthesized and transformed into a variety of structures both at the theoretical and real, experimental level. The rhombellation topo-geometric operation may be used to transform the cube-shape into larger units and then build light (spongy) structures with larger voids. Hyper-clusters are polyhedral structures which nodes are polyhedral structures (the same or different ones). The paper presents some hypothetical spongy structures related to the cubic primitive 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30925766	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30925766	flu
Clinical otolaryngology : official journal of ENT-UK ; official journal of Netherlands Society for Oto-Rhino-Laryngology & Cervico-Facial Surgery	Immunity-targeted approaches to the management of chronic and recurrent upper respiratory tract disorders in children.	In this review, we summarise the current evidence and provide data demonstrating that some immunity-targeted strategies, including vaccination and immunomodulation, have proved effective in the treatment and prevention of recurrent and chronic URTIs in children.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30920131	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30920131	flu
Klinische Monatsblatter fur Augenheilkunde	[Acute Macular Neuroretinopathy].	Patienten mit AMNR erleben plötzlich auftretende ein- oder beidseitige Skotome im zentralen Gesichtsfeld bei oft nur geringer Beeinträchtigung der Sehschärfe. Die Prognose ist unterschiedlich; so gibt es Verlaufsformen mit Selbstlimitierung und völliger Regredienz der Läsionen, aber auch persistierende Visusreduktionen. Bei fehlender kausaler Therapieoption wird zumeist ein exspektatives Management favorisiert.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	30919403	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30919403	flu
Journal of oral science	The protective role of musk on salivary glands of mice exposed to chronic unpredictable mild stress.	This study assessed the impact of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) on the structure of mouse salivary glands and the role of musk in alleviating this impact. Forty male albino mice were distributed equally into four groups; control (untreated), CUMS (exposed to CUMS for 4 weeks), CUMS+fluoxetine (FLU) (exposed to CUMS then treated with FLU, CUMS+musk (exposed to CUMS then treated with musk). Behavioral changes and serum corticosterone levels were assessed at the end of the experiment. The submandibular and parotid glands were dissected out and processed for histopathological and immunohistochemical examination using antibodies against alpha smooth muscle actin (ASMA) and brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF). Exposure to CUMS significantly (P < 0.001) increased the serum corticosterone level and induced depression. CUMS also induced vacuolation in acinar cells along with a significant (P < 0.001) reduction of ASMA immunoexpression, indicating an effect on myoepithelial cells, and a significant (P < 0.001) increase of BDNF expression in the gland ductal system. Both FLU and musk alleviated the CUMS-induced behavioral, biochemical and histopathological changes in the salivary glands. In conclusion, musk ameliorates stress-induced structural changes in mouse salivary glands. This effect might be mediated through up-regulation of BDNF secretion by the glands.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	30918218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30918218	flu
Pathogens and disease	Sex differences in cytokine production following West Nile virus infection: Implications for symptom manifestation.	West Nile virus (WNV) infection outcomes vary among individuals, with most infections resulting in asymptomatic or mild flu-like symptoms. We previously reported an association between early cytokine production and symptom outcome following WNV infection in US blood donors. In this meta-analysis, we found that WNV-infected females reported more symptoms than WNV-infected males, despite similar initial viremia and type I interferon responses. As the infection progressed, males exhibited a protracted cytokine response-marked by sustained CCL2 (MCP-1), CCL11 (eotaxin-1), CXCL10 (IP-10) and IL-15-that was absent in females. Our results suggest that sex differences may be a factor in sustaining WNV immunity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30915442	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30915442	flu
Pharmacology, biochemistry, and behavior	Reversal effect of Riparin IV in depression and anxiety caused by corticosterone chronic administration in mice.	Mental disorders have a multifactorial etiology and stress presents as one of the causal factors. In depression, it is suggested that high cortisol concentration contributes directly to the pathology of this disease. Based on that, the study aims to evaluate the potential antidepressant effect of Riparin IV (Rip IV) in mice submitted to chronic stress model by repeated corticosterone administration. Female Swiss mice were selected into four groups: control (Ctrl), corticosterone (Cort), Riparin IV (Cort + Rip IV) and fluvoxamine (Cort + Flu). Three groups were administrated subcutaneously (SC) with corticosterone (20 mg/kg) during twenty-one days, while the control group received only vehicle. After the fourteenth day, groups were administrated tested drugs: Riparin IV, fluvoxamine or distilled water, by gavage, 1 h after subcutaneous injections. After the final treatment, animals were exposed to behavioral models such as forced swimming test (FST), tail suspension test (TST), open field test (OFT), elevated plus maze (EPM) and sucrose preference test (SPT). The hippocampus was also removed for the determination of BDNF levels. Corticosterone treatment altered all parameters in behavioral tests, leading to a depressive- and anxious-like behavior. Riparin IV and fluvoxamine exhibit antidepressant effect in FST, TST and SPT. In EPM and OFT, treatment displayed anxiolytic effect without alteration of locomotor activity. Corticosterone administration decreased BDNF levels and Riparin IV could reestablish them, indicating that its antidepressant effect may be related to ability to ameliorate hippocampal neurogenesis. These findings suggest that Riparin IV improves the depressive and anxious symptoms after chronic stress and could be a new alternative treatment for patients with depression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30904544	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30904544	flu
Vaccine	Effective and equitable influenza vaccine coverage in older and vulnerable adults: The need for evidence-based innovation and transformation.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	30902480	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30902480	flu
Military medicine	Identifying Predictors of Pressurized Submarine Escape Training (PSET) Attrition.	Pressurized Submarine Escape Training (PSET) physically prepares submariners to safely escape a submarine at depth. Failure to complete PSET is not a submarine service disqualification. Serious medical incidents are rare, but the safety record tradeoff has been low throughput. From 2009 to 2015, only 34% of students screened completed PSET. Students may be medically screened out of the training altogether (disqualified), or dropout during the physical training (attrite). Training records from 12,122 U.S. Navy students were used to identify factors contributing to training disqualification and attrition. Multivariate logistic regression model predictors included demographic and screening items. Association to PSET disqualification included cold/congestion/cough (ORadj 12.34), limited duty status (ORadj 4.29), Physical Readiness Test failure (ORadj 3.37), pneumonia or bronchitis in last 2 years (ORadj 3.17) and nervousness or anxiety in tight spaces (ORadj 2.37). Basic Enlisted Submarine School students were more likely to be disqualified and attrite than other submariner groups, and black/African American (ORadj 1.53) students were more likely to attrite than white students. Only cold/congestion/cough (ORadj 1.52), trouble swimming (ORadj 1.53), and screening during cold/flu season (ORadj 1.28), were associated with training attrition. Recommendations to modify screening requirements are listed in conclusions.	2019	eng	Research Support, U.S. Gov't, Non-P.H.S.	England	30901464	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30901464	flu
Journal of medical virology	Incidence and seasonality of respiratory viruses causing acute respiratory infections in the Northern United Arab Emirates.	The pattern of FLU in the UAE parallels to that of temperate countries. The trend of the small peak of FLU in the summer suggests a possibility of semi-seasonal pattern in the UAE.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30900750	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30900750	flu
Indian journal of ophthalmology	Acute macular neuroretinopathy after blunt ocular trauma: A rare association.	Acute macular neuroretinopathy (AMN) is a deep retinal ischemic manifestation. It has been reported after the use of sympathomimetics, childbirth, bee sting, oral contraceptives, flu-like illness, intravenous contrast agents and bodily trauma not directly involving the eyes. We report a case of AMN following blunt ocular trauma. An 18-year-old male presented with an acute history of blurring of vision following blunt trauma to the right eye. Spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) showed hyperreflectivity of the outer nuclear layer with ellipsoid layer disruption. This report highlights AMN as a manifestation of blunt trauma, presence of which may be an indicator of poor visual prognosis.	2019	eng	Case Reports	India	30900603	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30900603	flu
Biosensors	Electrochemical Response of 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30897802	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30897802	flu
Open forum infectious diseases	Twenty Years of the SENTRY Antifungal Surveillance Program: Results for 	EC-R and FLU-R remain uncommon among contemporary 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30895218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30895218	flu
Acta bio-medica : Atenei Parmensis	European university students of pharmacy: survey on the use of pharmaceutical drugs.	Considering that the drug information leaflet is not read by 50% of young people interviewed, it would be important for public health entities to instruct the population, especially younger age groups such as secondary school students, about the importance of reading this information carefully. The use of mass media in such a preventive medicine campaign could be effective.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	30889159	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30889159	flu
Nature	A little molecule that can disarm a lethal dose of flu virus.	 	2019	eng	News	England	30886384	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30886384	flu
BMC complementary and alternative medicine	The use of maoto (Ma-Huang-Tang), a traditional Japanese Kampo medicine, to alleviate flu symptoms: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Although we could not reach a definitive conclusion because of the small sample sizes and high risk of bias in the analysed studies, maoto may lower the duration of fever when it is used alone or in combination with NAIs and may be a well-tolerated treatment. More RCTs are needed to determine the efficacy and safety of maoto.	2019	eng	Systematic Review	England	30885188	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30885188	flu
Human vaccines & immunotherapeutics	Non-familial paid caregivers as potential flu carriers and cause of spread: the primary prevention of flu measured through their adhesion to flu vaccination campaigns-A Florentine experience.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30883258	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30883258	flu
The Annals of thoracic surgery	Trans-aortic left ventricular unloading in VA-ECMO: the trans-subclavian route.	Left ventricular unloading (LVU) during extracorporeal life support aims to minimize potential side effects of increased left ventricular afterload. A transaortic catheter vent implanted through a subclavian approach was used in two patients. Case 1 was a 48-year-old male with a recent history of STEMI, who developed refractory cardiogenic shock due to severe biventricular dysfunction. In case 2, a 56-year-old male was admitted for severe flu. The unloading procedure was successful in both patients, with bridge to heart transplantation in the first case and bridge to recovery in the other.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	30878460	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30878460	flu
Archivos de la Sociedad Espanola de Oftalmologia	Bilateral acute iris depigmentation and bilateral acute iris transillumination syndrome.	The case is presented of a 32 year-old male who arrived with acute bilateral symptoms with blurred vision, red eye, severe photophobia and severe ocular pain after suffering from a flu-like syndrome. The patient presented with a clinical picture of bilateral involvement characterised by pupils in mid-mydriasis, scarcely reactive to light, iris transillumination, diffuse depigmentation of the iridian stroma, pigment dispersion in the anterior chamber, and ocular hypertension. After the eye examination an inflammatory syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma were ruled out. The patient showed depigmentation characteristics as well as bilateral iris transillumination. Both conditions could form part of the spectrum of the same disease.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	30876733	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30876733	flu
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Safety of Inactivated Influenza Vaccine in Cancer Patients Receiving Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors (ICI).	No increase in incidence or severity of IRAE was detected in patients on ICIs who received the inactivated influenza vaccine within ~ 2 months of ICI. For newly treated patients on anti-PDI agents, IRAE rates were comparable to published clinical trials and did not vary with order of administration. Routine seasonal flu vaccination is encouraged in patients on ICIs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30874791	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30874791	flu
Vaccines	Heterotypic Neuraminidase Antibodies Against Different A(H1N1) Strains are Elicited after Seasonal Influenza Vaccination.	Neuraminidase (NA) content is not standardized in current seasonal influenza vaccines; neither anti-NA antibodies (anti-NA Abs) are measured nor is it well-defined as a correlate of humoral protection. In this work, the presence of NA1 antibodies against classical A(H1N1) and A(H1N1) pdm09 subtypes was studied before and after vaccination with seasonal vaccines containing A/California/07/2009 strain (A(H1N1) pdm09 subtype). By Enzyme-Linked Lectin Assay (ELLA; Consortium for the Standardization of Influenza Seroepidemiology), we analyzed serum samples from two different cohorts (adults and elderly). The presence of anti-NA Abs at titers ≥1/40 against classical A(H1N1) and A(H1N1) pdm09 subtypes were frequently found in both age groups, in 81.3% and 96.3% of adults and elderly, respectively. The higher titers of anti-NA Abs (NAI titers) were detected more frequently against classical A(H1N1) strains according to the expected age when the first flu infection takes place. In this way, an Original Antigenic Sin phenomenon related to NA seems to be part of the immune response against flu. Seasonal-vaccination induced homologous seroconversion against NA of A(H1N1) pdm09 subtype in 52.5% and 55.0%, and increased the Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) in 70.0% and 78.8% of adults and elderly, respectively. Seasonal vaccination also induced a heterotypic anti-NA Abs response against classical A(H1N1) strains (seroconversion at least in 8.8% and 11.3% of adults and elderly, respectively, and an increase in GMTs of at least 28.0% in both age groups). These anti-NA Abs responses occur even though the seasonal vaccine does not contain a standardized amount of NA. This work demonstrates that seasonal vaccines containing the A(H1N1) pdm09 subtype induce a broad antibody response against NA1, that may be a target for future influenza vaccines. Our study is one of the first to analyze the presence of Abs against NA and the response mediated by NAI titers after seasonal influenza vaccination.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30871198	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30871198	flu
Viruses	Educational Material about Influenza Viruses.	To supplement a special edition of the journal 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30866478	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30866478	flu
Seminars in reproductive medicine	Developmental Origins of Health and Disease: The History of the Barker Hypothesis and Assisted Reproductive Technology.	Since Barker's publication of "The fetal and infant origins of adult disease" in 1990, significant emphasis has been placed on the intrauterine environment and its effect on adult disease. Historical events such as the Dutch Famine and the 1918 Flu Pandemic have provided organic data about the epigenetic changes that can result from famine, infection, and stress. Mechanisms that allow for intrauterine survival may predispose to adult disease states when the fetus enters a world of abundance. As the field of in vitro fertilization (IVF) has developed and evolved, little attention has been paid to subtle yet significant differences in IVF offspring. Offspring of assisted reproductive technology (ART) have been reported to have higher rates of preterm birth, abnormal fetal size, and birth defects. It is clear that epigenetic modifications may begin as early as pre-pregnancy. These differences are likely not attributable to one factor in the IVF process. Each variable likely plays a subtle role in the epigenetic manipulation of the embryo. Thus, moving forward, physicians should practice with heightened determination to follow the long-term outcomes of the offspring of ART in an effort to further modify and perfect the field.	2019	eng	Review	United States	30866004	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30866004	flu
The Laryngoscope	Physiologic Model for Seasonal Patterns in Flu Transmission.	Seasonal patterns in flu transmission have observational validity in temperate climates. However, there is no consensus mechanism explaining the increased incidence of flu during the winter. The physiologic effects of cold weather and dry air on the upper respiratory system may contribute to immune dysfunction and increased susceptibly to flu-causing pathogens. Low temperature limits the absolute humidity of air. Persistent exposure to dry air leads to airway desiccation and failure of the mucociliary system. The resultant physiologic and histopathologic changes that occur in the airway increase susceptibility to flu-causing pathogens. Laryngoscope, 2019.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30865297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30865297	flu
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Healthcare Costs and Life-years Gained From Treatments Within the Advancing Cryptococcal Meningitis Treatment for Africa (ACTA) Trial on Cryptococcal Meningitis: A Comparison of Antifungal Induction Strategies in Sub-Saharan Africa.	Both 1 week of AmB and 5FC and 2 weeks of Oral FLU and 5FC are cost-effective treatments.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30863852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30863852	flu
Journal of immunology research	Serum Leucine-Rich 	To investigate whether serum leucine-rich 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Egypt	30863782	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30863782	flu
Human psychopharmacology	Investigating the role of expectancy in caffeine withdrawal using the balanced placebo design.	These findings confirm a strong pharmacological basis for caffeine withdrawal and an important role of cognition in drug craving. Future research should investigate the role of expectancy in drug withdrawal and craving and the potential use of expectancy manipulations in symptom prevention and management.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30861208	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30861208	flu
CNS spectrums	40 Pseudo Cranial Nerve I Dysfunction: Subjective Hyposmia and Subjective Hypogeusia but Normosmia and Normogeusia - 3 cases.	B-SIT: 10 (normosmia). Retronasal Smell Index: 7 (normal). Propylthiouracil Disc Taste Test: 10 (normogeusia).CONCLUSIONDiscordance between subjective and objective findings may be due to the wide distribution of normal in the general population in olfactory ability. The associated reduction in retronasal smell may then be interpreted by the patient as reduced ability to taste. Alternatively, complaints of hyposmia and hypogeusiamay be due to a non-organic need such as malingering or psychosomatic illness, or could represent a primary defect in the cortical integration of smell and taste, interpreted as reduction in perceived flavor, yet the primary sensory neurons and threshold as tested would appear to be normal. This disparity possibly indicates that the testing modalities are too insensitive to demonstrate more subtle sensory perception findings, and suggests the need for more refined testing methods for smell and taste.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30859968	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30859968	flu
CNS spectrums	11 Therapeutic Equivalences in Long-term Antipsychotics.	DDD is available for almost all antipsychotics and is an accepted method as well as a clinical level as a researcher. They are based on a wide variety of data from different sources. Several studies have found a strong correlation between this method and other methods of equivalence. This method also has limitations. First, the DDDs were not established for the purpose of therapeutic equivalences. Secondly, the daily dose can be applied mainly to the efficacy of the drug, when the dose could cause some adverse effects.The establishment of therapeutic equivalences may help when a clinician needs to change one long-term antipsychotic. This could reduce psychotic relapses. It may enhance therapeutic adherence avoiding undesirable side effects. On the other hand, long-acting antipsychotics have corroborated the adherence and decrease of relapses, which is why it is increasingly used as a good alternative to oral drugs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30859942	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30859942	flu
Progress in biomaterials	A new formulation of graphene oxide/fluconazole compound as a promising agent against Candida albicans.	Candida albicans (C. albicans) belongs to the opportunistic fungal pathogens, which cause a wide spectrum of infections in immune-compromised patients. Graphene oxide (GO), a biocompatibility agent, has been reported to exhibit effective antimicrobial activity. In the present study, a graphene oxide/fluconazole (GO/Flu) compound was synthesized and characterized using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and Raman spectroscopy. The antifungal activity of GO/Flu was examined against fluconazole-resistant C. albicans (ATCC 10231) compared to GO and Flu using the broth microdilution method, according to CLSI protocol. DNA fragmentation was assessed through the antifungal mechanism of GO/Flu. The release of Fluin PBS medium was measured. Moreover, the cytotoxicity effect of GO/Flu on SW480 cell line was evaluated. Indeed, adhesion ability of C. albicans-treated GO/Flu against SW480 cell line was assessed. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of GO, Flu, and GO/Flu was determined at 800 µg/mL, 16 µg/mL, and 400-9 µg/mL, respectively. Notably, GO/Flu exhibited an intense antifungal activity compared to GO and Flu. In addition, GO/Flu showed much less cell toxicity against SW480 cell line than GO and Flu (P < 0.05). The release determination of Flu in PBS (pH 7.4) medium was 72.42%. GO/Flu reduced the adhesion ability of C. albicans to SW480 cell line significantly. DNA fragmentation assay indicated that GO/Flu potentially degraded the DNA of C. albicans and caused a fungicidal influence. According to the findings, GO/Flu could enhance the antifungal activity against C.albicans through DNA fragmentation with low cytotoxicity effect.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	30859396	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30859396	flu
Journal of reproductive immunology	A pilot study showing a stronger H1N1 influenza vaccination response during pregnancy in women who subsequently deliver preterm.	Although the sample size is limited and additional validation is required, our findings suggest an increased activation of the maternal immune system as shown by the stronger vaccination response to H1N1 in women who subsequently delivered preterm, in comparison to women who delivered at term.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	30852461	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30852461	flu
The Journal of infectious diseases	The Etiological Role of Common Respiratory Viruses in Acute Respiratory Infections in Older Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.	Acute respiratory tract infections (ARI) constitute a substantial disease burden in adults and elderly individuals. We aimed to identify all case-control studies investigating the potential role of respiratory viruses in the etiology of ARI in older adults aged ≥65 years. We conducted a systematic literature review (across 7 databases) of case-control studies published from 1996 to 2017 that investigated the viral profile of older adults with and those without ARI. We then computed a pooled odds ratio (OR) with a 95% confidence interval and virus-specific attributable fraction among the exposed (AFE) for 8 common viruses: respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), influenza virus (Flu), parainfluenza virus (PIV), human metapneumovirus (HMPV), adenovirus (AdV), rhinovirus (RV), bocavirus (BoV), and coronavirus (CoV). From the 16 studies included, there was strong evidence of possible causal attribution for RSV (OR, 8.5 [95% CI, 3.9-18.5]; AFE, 88%), Flu (OR, 8.3 [95% CI, 4.4-15.9]; AFE, 88%), PIV (OR, not available; AFE, approximately 100%), HMPV (OR, 9.8 [95% CI, 2.3-41.0]; AFE, 90%), AdV (OR, not available; AFE, approximately 100%), RV (OR, 7.1 [95% CI, 3.7-13.6]; AFE, 86%) and CoV (OR, 2.8 [95% CI, 2.0-4.1]; AFE, 65%) in older adults presenting with ARI, compared with those without respiratory symptoms (ie, asymptomatic individuals) or healthy older adults. However, there was no significant difference in the detection of BoV in cases and controls. This review supports RSV, Flu, PIV, HMPV, AdV, RV, and CoV as important causes of ARI in older adults and provides quantitative estimates of the absolute proportion of virus-associated ARI cases to which a viral cause can be attributed. Disease burden estimates should take into account the appropriate AFE estimates (for older adults) that we report.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30849176	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30849176	flu
Cleveland Clinic journal of medicine	Flu or strep? Rapid tests can mislead.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30849039	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30849039	flu
Health marketing quarterly	The influence of mood and information processing strategies on recall, persuasion, and intention to get a flu vaccine.	This study investigates the interactions between mood (positive/negative) and information processing style (item-specific/relational/narrative processing) on responses to three types of advertising messages (ungrouped list/grouped list/narrative ads). A mood congruency effect was postulated and found to influence recall, persuasion and behavioral intention. Results supported the hypothesis that message effectiveness was moderated by mood in the direction of congruency. That is, participants in a positive mood recalled more information, were more persuaded, and were more likely to adopt the recommended behavior after exposure to advertisements with a grouped list format. Evidence regarding similarity of factors influencing relational and narrative processing is presented.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30849027	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30849027	flu
The Veterinary record	Developing a test for equine flu.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30846632	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30846632	flu
Scientific reports	The Transmembrane Conformation of the Influenza B Virus M2 Protein in Lipid Bilayers.	Influenza A and B viruses cause seasonal flu epidemics. The M2 protein of influenza B (BM2) is a membrane-embedded tetrameric proton channel that is essential for the viral lifecycle. BM2 is a functional analog of AM2 but shares only 24% sequence identity for the transmembrane (TM) domain. The structure and function of AM2, which is targeted by two antiviral drugs, have been well characterized. In comparison, much less is known about the structure of BM2 and no drug is so far available to inhibit this protein. Here we use solid-state NMR spectroscopy to investigate the conformation of BM2(1-51) in phospholipid bilayers at high pH, which corresponds to the closed state of the channel. Using 2D and 3D correlation NMR experiments, we resolved and assigned the 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30842530	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30842530	flu
Journal of the Royal Army Medical Corps	Influenza vaccination of UK Armed Forces personnel, a waste of resources or an essential public health measure?	 	2019	eng	Editorial	England	30842222	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30842222	flu
Journal of the Royal Army Medical Corps	Influenza syndromic surveillance and vaccine efficacy in the UK Armed Forces, 2017-2018.	The relative risk reduction (RRR) for vaccinated personnel was modest and lower than reported elsewhere, but closely compares with ILI rates included in a 2018 Cochrane review. The small RRR and large NNV do not support widening the population of UK AF eligible to receive influenza vaccine. Regimental Medical Officers (RMOs) seeking advice on whether to vaccinate other groups of SP should be aware that this approach offers questionable clinical benefit. The ILI surveillance methodology used in this work could be adapted for syndromic surveillance of other infectious diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30842221	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30842221	flu
Frontiers in cellular and infection microbiology	None	None	2019	eng	Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't	Switzerland	30834236	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30834236	flu
Infection and immunity	Characterization of Early Stages of Human Alveolar Infection by the Q Fever Agent 	Human Q fever is caused by the intracellular bacterial pathogen 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30833339	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30833339	flu
International journal of environmental research and public health	Cost of Sickness Absenteeism during Seasonal Influenza Outbreaks of Medium Intensity among Health Care Workers.	This study aims to estimate the economic costs of sickness absenteeism of health care workers in a large Italian teaching hospital during the seasonal flu periods. A retrospective observational study was performed. The excess data of hospital's sickness absenteeism during three seasonal influenza periods (2010/2011; 2011/2012; 2012/2013) came from a previous study. The cost of sickness absenteeism was calculated for six job categories: medical doctor, technical executive (i.e., pharmacists); nurses and allied health professionals (i.e., radiographer), other executives (i.e., engineer), non-medical support staff, and administrative staff, and for four age ranges: <39, 40⁻49, 50⁻59, and >59 years. An average of 5401 employees working each year were under study. There were over 11,100 working days/year lost associated with an influenza period in Italy, the costs associated were approximately 1.7 million euros, and the average work loss was valued at € 327/person. The major shares of cost appeared related to nurses and allied health professionals (45% of total costs). The highest costs for working days lost were reported in the 40⁻49 age range, accounting for 37% of total costs. Due to the substantial economic burden of sickness absenteeism, there are clear benefits to be gained from the effective prevention of the influenza.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30832264	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30832264	flu
Medical principles and practice : international journal of the Kuwait University, Health Science Centre	Clinical Performance of the AllplexTM Respiratory Panel 1 Test Compared to SimplexaTM Flu A/B and RSV for Detection of Influenza Virus and Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infection Including Their Subtyping.	The Allplex panelshowed high sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive, and negative predictive values for the detection of Flu A, Flu B, and RSV. This assay is fast and easy to perform because it takes only about 150 min and there is no need for post-PCR electrophoresis. The ARP can be used as a reliable and convenient assay in clinical laboratories.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30831570	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30831570	flu
Cancer causes & control : CCC	Educating Latinas about cervical cancer and HPV: a pilot randomized study.	This study supported the use of small media interventions in narrative education form as effective in increasing knowledge and intention to be screened for cervical cancer. The three culturally relevant interventions, built on qualitative data, were all successful in increasing knowledge.	2019	eng	Randomized Controlled Trial	Netherlands	30830494	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30830494	flu
Diagnostic microbiology and infectious disease	Comparison of the Coris Influ A + B K-SeT® and BD Veritor Flu A + B® for rapid detection of influenza viruses in respiratory samples from 3 consecutive flu seasons in Belgium.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30827806	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30827806	flu
Vaccine	Vaccine hesitancy and Web 2.0: Exploring how attitudes and beliefs about influenza vaccination are exchanged in online threaded user comments.	The growth of Web 2.0 has been particularly impactful in shaping information assessment in decision-making with regards to vaccination. The aim of the present study was to explore how attitudes and beliefs about influenza vaccination are exchanged in Web 2.0 through an analysis of user comment threads in response to related news reports on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation national news website (average of 5.8 million unique visitors per month). User comments (n = 2042) were extracted using a Google Chrome data mining extension, from 33 articles reporting on the seasonal influenza vaccine between September 2015 and October 2016. User comments were analyzed using thematic discourse analysis to identify themes within the data, and also identify how information is exchanged, including identifying the rhetorical devices and tactics used. Mostly unrelated to article content, user comments were extremely polarized with only those with strong positions at either end of the vaccination spectrum (for or against) engaging actively in online debates. Observed exchanges, and the use of rhetorical devices and tactics employed by users are identified as furthering or reinforcing polarization. In addition to exchanging information, forums served as 'echo chambers' where individuals connect with likeminded users and collect additional information to reinforce pre-existing beliefs, rather than encouraging the enrichment of user knowledge. Our data lead us to question existing calls for public health engagement in such online forums, as doing so may actually reduce the intention to vaccinate among individuals against vaccination. Rather, we identify a greater need to observe online platforms to better understand the social mechanisms that may contribute to, or reinforce, attitudes and beliefs related to influenza vaccine refusal. Further research may also explore the effect that such dialogue has on the attitudes and beliefs of passively observing individuals who have yet to decide whether to receive the flu vaccine.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	30826142	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30826142	flu
International journal of biological macromolecules	Hemagglutinin gene based biosensor for early detection of swine flu (H1N1) infection in human.	Hemagglutinin (HA) is a glycoprotein found on the surface of influenza A subtype virus H1N1 which play a major role in infection to the human by binding the virus to cells with sialic acid on the membrane of upper respiratory tract or erythrocytes. Based on sequence of HA gene an impedimetric biosensor was developed by immobilizing amino labeled single stranded DNA probe onto cysteine modified gold surface of the screen printed electrode for early and rapid detection of H1N1 (Swine flu) in human. The electrochemical impedance was recorded after hybridization of probe with single stranded cDNA (ss-cDNA) of H1N1 patient samples in presence of redox couple. All available methods for detection of H1N1 including RT-PCR are either expensive or time consuming. However, impedimetric biosensor is not only highly specific for H1N1 virus but also can detect as low as 0.004 ng (limit of detection) ss-cDNA in 6 µL only in 30 min. The sensitivity of the sensor was 3750 Ω cm	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	30822474	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30822474	flu
Cellular microbiology	Infection by Brucella melitensis or Brucella papionis modifies essential physiological functions of human trophoblasts.	Brucellosis is a zoonosis caused by bacteria of the Brucella genus. In ruminants, brucellosis causes abortion, followed by chronic infection and secretion of bacteria in milk. In humans, it usually presents as flu-like symptoms, with serious complications if untreated. Epidemiological studies have only recently established that brucellosis can also cause pregnancy complications in women, but the pathogenic mechanisms are unknown. Pioneering studies in ruminants showed that Brucella infect trophoblasts and then colonise the placenta where they grow to high density. A recent study showed that the main zoonotic Brucella species can infect human cytotrophoblasts (CTB) and extravillous trophoblasts (EVT). In this work, we show that Brucella papionis (associated with stillbirth in primates) also infects human trophoblasts. However, it replicates actively in CTB, whereas its replication is very restricted within EVT. We also observed alteration of several trophoblastic functions upon infection by B. papionis or Brucella melitensis (the most prevalent species in human brucellosis). Infection altered the production of hormones, the ability of CTB to form syncytiotrophoblasts, and the invasion capacity of EVT. We also found that infection can spread between different types of trophoblasts. These findings constitute a new step in understanding how Brucella infection causes adverse pregnancy outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	30817085	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30817085	flu
Genetics and molecular biology	Science and evolution.	Evolution is both a fact and a theory. Evolution is widely observable in laboratory and natural populations as they change over time. The fact that we need annual flu vaccines is one example of observable evolution. At the same time, evolutionary theory explains more than observations, as the succession on the fossil record. Hence, evolution is also the scientific theory that embodies biology, including all organisms and their characteristics. In this paper, we emphasize why evolution is the most important theory in biology. Evolution explains every biological detail, similar to how history explains many aspects of a current political situation. Only evolution explains the patterns observed in the fossil record. Examples include the succession in the fossil record; we cannot find the easily fossilized mammals before 300 million years ago; after the extinction of the dinosaurs, the fossil record indicates that mammals and birds radiated throughout the planet. Additionally, the fact that we are able to construct fairly consistent phylogenetic trees using distinct genetic markers in the genome is only explained by evolutionary theory. Finally, we show that the processes that drive evolution, both on short and long time scales, are observable facts.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	30816905	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30816905	flu
Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication of the Infectious Diseases Society of America	Addition of flucytosine to fluconazole for the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis in Africa: a multi-country cost-effectiveness analysis.	Addition of 5FC to FLU is cost-effective for cryptococcal meningitis treatment in Africa and if made available widely could substantially reduce mortality rates among HIV-infected persons in Africa.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30816418	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30816418	flu
AMIA ... Annual Symposium proceedings. AMIA Symposium	Identification of Rare Adverse Events with Year-varying Reporting Rates for FLU4 Vaccine in VAERS.	In 2012, a new influenza vaccine - FLU4 was first licensed in the US. FLU4 is a quadrivalent flu vaccine, which can protect against four flu viruses. Compared to FLU and FLU3, FLU4 gives broader protection against the flu viruses. To our knowledge, few studies have focused on the FLU4 vaccine and its adverse events. Since safety signal detection is important in vaccination, it is necessary to launch such studies on FLU4. In this paper, we used the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), which is a national post-marketing vaccine safety surveillance program to identify rare adverse events with year-varying reporting rates for FLU4. The differences in the reporting rates over years are potential signals of vaccine safety issues caused by updates of FLU4 ingredients. We used a likelihood ratio test to simultaneously test the sparsity of events and the differences of event rates over years. We identified 4 adverse events that are rare and have significantly different reporting rates over years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30815200	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30815200	flu
Zhonghua lao dong wei sheng zhi ye bing za zhi = Zhonghua laodong weisheng zhiyebing zazhi = Chinese journal of industrial hygiene and occupational diseases	[The regulation of tight junction protein via PKCα/β for abnormal permeability of brain microvascular endothelial cells exposed to paraquat].	None	2019	chi	Journal Article	China	30812071	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30812071	flu
International microbiology : the official journal of the Spanish Society for Microbiology	Combination Therapy of Clinically Approved Antifungal Drugs Is Enhanced by Conjugation with Silver Nanoparticles.	Silver nanoparticles (SN) have been recently developed as a new class of antimicrobial agents against numerous pathogenic microorganisms. SN have also been used as efficient drug delivery systems and have been linked with increasing drug potency. Here, we demonstrated the enhanced antifungal efficacy of nystatin (NYT) and fluconazole (FLU) after conjugation with SN. The antifungal bioactivity of NYT- and FLU-coated SN was evaluated against Candida albicans ATCC 10231 and Aspergillus brasiliensis ATCC 16404 by the agar tube dilution method. The aim of this study was to determine and compare the antifungal efficacy of NYT and FLU with their SN and, finally, the combination of both nanoparticles as NYT-SN + FLU-SN against pathogenic fungi. The results indicated that all test samples showed a dose-dependent response against tested fungi. SN significantly enhanced the antifungal effects of NYT and FLU as compared to drugs alone. We observed a remarkable increase in the percent inhibition of both fungi (90-100%) when treated with a combination of both nanoparticles NYT-SN + FLU-SN at 200 μg/mL only. Furthermore, the morphological modifications occurred at the surface of fungal species were also analyzed by atomic force microscopy (AFM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). While tested against primary human cell line, all SN showed negligible cytotoxicity. Hence, these results suggest that the combination of SN with NYT and FLU may have clinical implications in the treatment of fungal infections. However, in vivo studies are needed before recommending the use of these nanoparticles safely in clinical situations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30810990	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30810990	flu
Polski merkuriusz lekarski : organ Polskiego Towarzystwa Lekarskiego	PROTEFLAZID®: clinical studies as evidence base of its antiviral activity.	The article contains the results of many years of clinical studies of efficiency and safety of the preparation Proteflazid®, obtained from the wild cereals Deschampsia caespitosa L. and Calamagrotis epigeios L. Proteflazid® has direct antiviral and anti-relapsing effects in various disease of viral etiology, registered in more than 230 clinical studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Poland	30810112	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30810112	flu
Journal of prevention & intervention in the community	Health-related impediments to learning among dental and oral surgery students.	Dental education is a challenging experience that places significant demands on students' intellectual, financial, and psychosocial well-being. Dental students who simultaneously experience physical illness, emotional upset, or interpersonal difficulty may be at greater risk of experiencing negative academic consequences. It is well documented that stress affects student learning, however, the impact of other health concerns on academic success is less understood. The purpose of this manuscript is to document the prevalence and perceived academic impact of 24 health concerns on the academic performance of a sample of 130 undergraduate dental students as measured by the National College Health Assessment (NCHA). Health concerns that were most prevalent among dental students were generally also perceived to be most detrimental to their learning. These included upper respiratory infections (cold, flu, sore throat), interpersonal concerns (concerns about a troubled friend or family member, and relationship difficulty), and mental health issues (depression/anxiety/seasonal affective disorder, and stress).	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30806191	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30806191	flu
Canadian journal of anaesthesia = Journal canadien d'anesthesie	Fatal awake malignant hyperthermia episodes in a family with malignant hyperthermia susceptibility: a case series.	Life-threatening awake MH episodes may develop in some MHS individuals in the absence of anesthetic triggers. Potential triggers can be physical exertion in combination with a febrile illness. Malignant hyperthermia susceptible patients are recommended to be vaccinated against flu and restrict physical activities when febrile, wear an MH alert bracelet, and inform medical personnel of their MH history. Oral dantrolene is suggested to be available to MHS patients for administration with the early signs of awake MH.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30805902	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30805902	flu
Frontiers in pediatrics	Onset Patterns and Course of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	30805319	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30805319	flu
The American journal of case reports	Clinical Overlap Between Myopericarditis and Stress Induced Cardiomyopathy: A Diagnostic and Therapeutic Challenge.	BACKGROUND Stress induced cardiomyopathy (SIC) is characterized by non-obstructive coronary arteries and characteristic ventricular apical ballooning. The exact pathogenesis of SIC is not well recognized. We present an unusual case of SIC that mimicked acute myopericarditis and discuss the effect of this masquerading presentation of SIC in recognizing pathophysiological association between myopericarditis and SIC and limitations of current diagnostic criteria. CASE REPORT A 47-year-old female presented with flu-like illness and pleuritic chest pain. An electrocardiogram (ECG) showed diffuse PR depressions and ST elevations, troponin 5 ng/mL, hemoglobin 14.2 mg/dL, leukocytosis (white blood cell count of 15.1×103/uL) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 22.4 mm/hour. Echocardiogram showed reduced ejection fraction (EF) with apical ballooning. Catheterization showed non-obstructive coronary disease. The patient was given colchicine and ibuprofen for 1 day with symptom resolution over the next 2 days and repeat echocardiogram with preserved EF. Troponin trended down to 3.24 ng/mL and 0.44 ng/mL, 6 hours apart. ECG showed resolution of PR depressions and subsequent T wave inversions in 1, AVl, V1-V6 by day 3. The diagnosis of myopericarditis was favored by viral prodrome, fever, pleuritic pain, pericardial rub, ECG findings, and elevated ESR. History of emotional stress, characteristic ballooning of left ventricle apex with rapid resolution favored SIC. CONCLUSIONS This case showed that SIC and myocarditis need not be mutually exclusive and differentiating clinically between these 2 entities can be difficult. Alternatively, SIC can accompany other cardiac conditions like myocardial infarction, pericarditis, and myocarditis making diagnosis and management challenging. Clinicians need to be cautious while making this differentiation as duration and type of therapy may be significantly different. SIC can be considered a variant of regional inflammatory myocarditis wherein pericarditis may result secondary to extension of myocardial inflammation to overlying pericardium. The current Mayo Clinic criteria for diagnosis of SIC appears to be outdated, not accounting for such atypical presentations, and therefore needs to be revised.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	30804319	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30804319	flu
