 	Orthogeriatric Nursing in the Emergency and Perioperative In-Patient Setting	As the population ages, musculoskeletal trauma in older people will be a growing challenge. Although management of older people following trauma has some similarities to that for all trauma, there are also differences and specific considerations relating to aging. The most common cause of injury in older people is a fall, so fall-related trauma will be the focus of this section while acknowledging that the care of elderly trauma, whatever the cause, is based on the same principles.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314470	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314470	aging
 	MRI of the Pelvic Floor and MR Defecography	Pelvic floor disorder (PFD) is a common condition in today’s society with its aging population. The leading symptoms may vary from urological, gynecological, intestinal, or proctologic origin and may strongly affect the patients’ quality of life. Nowadays, MRI gains more attention before planned surgical repair to identify all involved compartments in pelvic organ prolapse and to detect incidental pathologic conditions. Due to the increasing use of dynamic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for diagnostic purposes regarding PFD, a standardized and state-of-the-art MRI procedure as well as a systemic approach to report the MRI findings is crucial in daily routine to improve effective communication between the radiologist and the clinician.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314372	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314372	aging
 	Imaging of Diffuse and Inflammatory Liver Disease	The incidence of diffuse liver disease, including all causes, is increasing worldwide. On one side this is due to trends in population towards aging and obesity resulting in a higher prevalence of steatosis/steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. On the other side, inflammatory origin, especially due to viral hepatitis, is one of the primary reasons for diffuse liver disease. This chapter will describe the most common imaging features of hepatic metabolic and storage diseases, including overload with fat, iron, copper, and amyloid and diffuse neoplastic diseases. We also discuss focal and diffuse infectious and inflammatory hepatic diseases. Key imaging manifestations of fungal, granulomatous, parasitic, viral, and bacterial as well as the less common hepatic infections such as cat-scratch disease, bacillary angiomatosis, and amebic disease are reviewed to avoid pitfalls in image interpretation. Although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides unique capabilities for noninvasive and quantitative characterization of liver tissue that rival the diagnostic utility of liver biopsies, also characteristic imaging findings with computed tomography (CT) that are useful in daily clinical routine will be discussed.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314369	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314369	aging
 	Life Course Research Agenda (LCRA), Version 1.0	Life course health science research is “connecting the dots” between child health development, adult patterns of premature morbidity and mortality, and more integrated notions of healthy aging. However, there are still many outstanding questions about the relationship between early experiences and lifelong health and well-being, as well as a growing need to understand how emerging knowledge can be applied to the development of evidence-based practice and policy that can reduce risks, minimize exposures, and optimize lifelong health. In 2010, the Maternal and Child Health Life Course Research Network (LCRN) initiated an inclusive research agenda-setting process that resulted in the Handbook of Life Course Health Development, which offers state-of-the-art reviews and analyses of life course health-development (LCHD) research focused on key life stages and a variety of health conditions, as well as recommendations pertaining to future research in these areas. In developing this concluding chapter and the research agenda it contains, we have attempted to synthesize the authors’ findings and recommendations in order to propose a more integrated set of research priorities and strategies that can advance the entire LCHD field. The resulting transdisciplinary research agenda focuses on foundational research, including research that addresses life course epidemiology, research that elucidates LCHD processes (e.g., sensitive periods, epigenetics), and research that identifies effective interventions, with a special emphasis on health disparities research and research on high priority conditions (e.g., obesity and mental health conditions) and specific vulnerable populations (e.g., children in foster care, premature infants, and children with medical complexity). It also considers essential research capacity-building activities focused on data, data systems, and methods, as well as strategies for building the human, technical, cultural, and financial capacity required to carry out this challenging work. Lastly, it addresses the importance of translational and intervention research that can speed the application of concepts and findings to the practice and policy arenas. We conclude with a discussion of advancing the overall LCHD research paradigm, including the framework and principles that have emerged from the research thus far and that are helping to define a robust explanatory and theoretical LCHD framework.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314297	aging
Dementia and geriatric cognitive disorders	Albumin and Hemoglobin Trajectories and Incident Disabling Dementia in Community-Dwelling Older Japanese.	Dementia risk was higher for individuals with low trajectories for serum albumin and hemoglobin levels. This finding highlights the importance of interventions that improve nutritional status and control relevant diseases in middle-aged and older adults with low serum albumin and hemoglobin levels.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31315125	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315125	aging
Aging	The positive impacts of early-life education on cognition, leisure activity, and brain structure in healthy aging.	Education in people's early lives are positively related to their cognitive function, but its modulating effects on detailed cognition domains, its interaction with leisure activities and the associated brain changes have yet to be investigated. This report used data from 659 cognitively normal community dwelling elderly who completed neuropsychological tests, leisure activities measurement, and 78 of them underwent structural and diffusion MRI scans. We found that: (i) the highly educated elderly had a better cognitive functioning in multi-domains, higher frequencies of participation in knowledge-related leisure activities, and slower age-related reductions of executive function; (ii) the intellectual and social types of leisure activities mediated the association between education and multiple cognitive domains, including memory, language, attention and executive function; (iii) there was a significant age by education interaction on the gray matter volume of the anterior brain regions and white matter integrity; and (iv) the interaction between age and education affected cognition indirectly through white matter integrity analyzed using structural equation model. Overall, our results revealed that high education in early life served as a protective factor in aging that may help to postpone cognitive and brain reserve decline in cognitively normal aging.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315089	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315089	aging
Free radical biology & medicine	Age-dependent dysregulation of redox genes may contribute to fibrotic pulmonary disease susceptibility.	Aging is associated with enhanced oxidative stress and increased susceptibility to numerous diseases. This relationship is particularly striking with respect to the incidence of fibrotic lung disease. To identify potential mechanisms underlying the association between aging and susceptibility to fibrotic lung disease we analyzed transcriptome data from 342 disease-free human lung samples as a function of donor age. Our analysis reveals that aging in lung is accompanied by modest yet progressive changes in genes modulating redox homeostasis, the TGF-beta 1 signaling axis, and the extracellular matrix (ECM), pointing to an aging lung functional network (ALFN). Further, the transcriptional changes we document are tissue-specific, with age-dependent gene expression patterns differing across organ systems. Our findings suggest that the age-associated increased incidence of fibrotic pulmonary disease occurs in the context of tissue-specific, age-dependent transcriptional changes. Understanding the relationship between age-associated gene expression and susceptibility to fibrotic pulmonary disease may allow for more accurate risk stratification and effective therapeutic interventions within this challenging clinical space.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315063	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315063	aging
Cell reports	XBP-1 Remodels Lipid Metabolism to Extend Longevity.	The endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response (UPR	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315038	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315038	aging
Applied physiology, nutrition, and metabolism = Physiologie appliquee, nutrition et metabolisme	On the Horizon of Aging and Physical Activity Research.	This viewpoint is the result of a Horizon Round Table discussion of Exercise and Aging held during the 2017 Saltin International Graduate School in Exercise and Clinical Physiology in Gatineau, Quebec. This expert panel discussed key issues and approaches to future research into aging, across human physiological systems, current societal concerns and funding approaches. Over the 60-minute round table discussion, three major themes emerged that the panel considered to be "On the Horizon" of aging research. These themes include; 1) aging is a process that extends from womb to tomb, 2) the importance of longitudinal experimental studies, and 3) the ongoing need to investigate multiple systems using an integrative approach between scientists, clinicians, and knowledge brokers. With a focus on these themes, we aim to identify critical questions, challenges, and opportunities that face scientists in advancing the understanding of exercise and aging.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31314999	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314999	aging
Angewandte Chemie (International ed. in English)	Orthogonal Activation of RNA-Cleaving DNAzymes in Live Cells by Reactive Oxygen Species.	RNA-cleaving DNAzymes are useful tools for intracellular metal ion sensing and gene regulation. Incorporating stimuli-responsive modifications into these DNAzymes enables their activities to be spatiotemporally and chemically controlled for more precise applications. Despite the successful development of many 'caged' DNAzymes for light-induced activation, DNAzymes that are intracellularly activable by chemical inputs of biological importance, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS), are still scarce. ROS like hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and hypochlorite (HClO) are critical mediators of oxidative stress-related cell signaling and dysregulation including activation of immune system as well as progression of diseases and aging. Using DNAzymes to study ROS-related cellular process requires ROS-activable DNAzymes to avoid the signals from cellular background events. In this work, we constructed ROS-activable DNAzymes by introducing phenylboronate and phosphorothioate modifications to the Zn2+-dependent 8-17 DNAzyme. These ROS-activable DNAzymes were orthogonally activated by H2O2 and HClO inside live human and mouse cells.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31314942	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314942	aging
International journal of cosmetic science	Clinical impacts of sun exposures on the faces and hands of Japanese women of different ages.	The present work illustrates, for the first time, some specificities of the impacts of sun exposures on the facial skin of Japanese women, pinpointing the fact that some facial signs are of an early onset. Results significantly confirm the importance of both sun avoidance coupled with photo-protective measures. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314913	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314913	aging
Muscle & nerve	Molecular indicators of denervation in ageing human skeletal muscle.	Muscle from healthy older individuals expresses developmental myosins to varying degrees, but more than previous reports for young individuals. Along with the AchR correlations, we propose that these findings support the presence of neuromuscular junction destabilization, denervation and re-innervation in aging human skeletal muscle. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314910	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314910	aging
Brazilian journal of medical and biological research = Revista brasileira de pesquisas medicas e biologicas	Age-related changes and effects of regular low-intensity exercise on gait, balance, and oxidative biomarkers in the spinal cord of Wistar rats.	The present study aimed to analyze age-related changes to motor coordination, balance, spinal cord oxidative biomarkers in 3-, 6-, 18-, 24-, and 30-month-old rats. The effects of low-intensity exercise on these parameters were also analyzed in 6-, 18-, and 24-month-old rats. Body weight, blood glucose, total cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol were assessed for all rats. The soleus muscle weight/body weight ratio was used to estimate skeletal muscle mass loss. Body weight increased until 24 months; only 30-month-old rats exhibited decreased blood glucose and increased total cholesterol and HDL cholesterol. The soleus muscle weight/body weight ratio increased until 18 months, followed by a small decrease in old rats. Exercise did not change any of these parameters. Stride length and step length increased from adult to middle age, but decreased at old age. Stride width increased while the sciatic functional index decreased in old rats. Performance in the balance beam test declined with age. While gait did not change, balance improved after exercise. Aging increased superoxide anion generation, hydrogen peroxide levels, total antioxidant capacity, and superoxide dismutase activity while total thiol decreased and lipid hydroperoxides did not change. Exercise did not significantly change this scenario. Thus, aging increased oxidative stress in the spinal cord, which may be associated with age-induced changes in gait and balance. Regular low-intensity exercise is a good alternative for improving age-induced changes in balance, while beneficial effects on gait and spinal cord oxidative biomarkers cannot be ruled out because of the small number of rats investigated (n=5 or 6/group).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314852	aging
PloS one	Is there more room to improve? The lifespan trajectory of procedural learning and its relationship to the between- and within-group differences in average response times.	Characterizing the developmental trajectories of cognitive functions such as learning, memory and decision making across the lifespan faces fundamental challenges. Cognitive functions typically encompass several processes that can be differentially affected by age. Methodological issues also arise when comparisons are made across age groups that differ in basic performance measures, such as in average response times (RTs). Here we focus on procedural learning-a fundamental cognitive function that underlies the acquisition of cognitive, social, and motor skills-and demonstrate how disentangling subprocesses of learning and controlling for differences in average RTs can reveal different developmental trajectories across the human lifespan. Two hundred-seventy participants aged between 7 and 85 years performed a probabilistic sequence learning task that enabled us to separately measure two processes of procedural learning, namely general skill learning and statistical learning. Using raw RT measures, in between-group comparisons, we found a U-shaped trajectory with children and older adults exhibiting greater general skill learning compared to adolescents and younger adults. However, when we controlled for differences in average RTs (either by using ratio scores or focusing on a subsample of participants with similar average speed), only children (but not older adults) demonstrated superior general skill learning consistently across analyses. Testing the relationship between average RTs and general skill learning within age groups shed light on further age-related differences, suggesting that general skill learning measures are more affected by average speed in some age groups. Consistent with previous studies of learning probabilistic regularities, statistical learning showed a gradual decline across the lifespan, and learning performance seemed to be independent of average speed, regardless of the age group. Overall, our results suggest that children are superior learners in various aspects of procedural learning, including both general skill and statistical learning. Our study also highlights the importance to test, and control for, the effect of average speed on other RT measures of cognitive functions, which can fundamentally affect the interpretation of group differences in developmental, aging and clinical psychology and neuroscience studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314804	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314804	aging
PloS one	Community size and perception of older adults in the Cook Islands.	Attitudes towards aging are often negative, a phenomenon known as ageism. However, personal contact with older adults and intergenerational exchange in the context of close families may mitigate such negative tendencies. So far, these effects have been studied in Western and industrialized contexts. The present study extended this work to the Cook Islands archipelago, a group of islands in the South Pacific characterized by low levels of industrialization and relative isolation from foreign influences. We tested the hypothesis that attitudes toward aging in the Cook Islands would be more positive than in the world at large, and that, within the archipelago, attitudes towards aging would be more positive in smaller, less industrialized communities with closer family ties. Participants (n = 70), were recruited from three islands varying in community size and strength of the family ties among inhabitants. They rated their aging attitudes on four dimensions. Contrary to our hypotheses, attitudes in the Cook Islands did not differ from those reported in industrialized nations and did not vary significantly across islands, even after controlling for personal contact to older adults. Potential limitations and implications for future research are discussed.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314771	aging
The Permanente journal	Legal Perspectives on Telemedicine Part 1: Legal and Regulatory Issues.	Telemedicine is defined as the remote delivery of clinical care services through audio-visual conferencing technology. A shortage of care practitioners combined with an aging population with disproportionately increasing care utilization patterns has created a "perfect storm," which since the late 1990s has propelled telemedicine as a potential solution to bridge this supply/demand and access gap. In critical care approximately 20% of nonfederal adult intensive care unit (ICU) beds in the US today are supported by some form of tele-ICU coverage. The literature has shown with increasing clarity during the last decade that correct tele-ICU implementation improves outcomes and has the potential to significantly improve the financial performance of health care systems. As is often the case in technology-driven innovations, the legal and regulatory framework has been moving slower than the clinical adoption of this new care delivery model, which is true not just in critical care, but in other medical specialties as well. This 2-part series focuses on legal perspectives on telemedicine. The first part discusses legal and regulatory challenges of telemedicine in general, with a more in-depth focus on tele-ICU. The second part will discuss the effects of telemedicine implementation on medicolegal risk, using the litigious critical care environment as an example.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314722	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314722	aging
American journal of physiology. Cell physiology	Mitochondrial Respiration and H	Diaphragm abnormalities in aging or chronic diseases include impaired mitochondrial respiration and H	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314583	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314583	aging
Salud publica de Mexico	[Out of pocket expenditure on health during the last year of life of Mexican elderly: analysis of the Enasem].	La probabilidad de incurrir en GB es menor cuando no se requiere hospitalización. Con hospitalización, la afiliación a la seguridad social y atenderse en hospitales públicos juega un papel protector.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Mexico	31314212	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314212	aging
Acta biochimica et biophysica Sinica	Exposure to jet lag aggravates depression-like behaviors and age-related phenotypes in rats subject to chronic corticosterone.	Our previous finding demonstrated that chronic corticosterone (CORT) may be involved in mediating the pathophysiology of premature aging in rats. Frequent jet lag increases the risk for many diseases, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, and is associated with the aging processes. However, the effect of jet lag on CORT-induced depression and its association with aging phenotypes remain unclear. In this study, the rats were exposed to both CORT and jet lag treatment, and the differences were analyzed and compared to rats with single CORT treatment. Our results showed that jet lag treatment aggravated CORT-induced depression-like behavior evidenced by sucrose intake test, forced swimming test, and open field test. Additionally, this treatment aggravated the shortening of telomeres, which possibly resulted in decreased telomerase activity, and downregulated the expression of telomere-binding factor 2 (TRF2) and telomerase reverse transcriptase compared to that in CORT rats, as revealed by quantitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis, respectively. The shortening of telomeres may have been caused by increased oxidative stress, which was associated with the inhibition of sirtuin 3. Exposure to jet lag also aggravated the degeneration of mitochondrial functions, as shown by the decreases in the mRNA expression of COX1, ND1, and Tfam. Our findings provide physiological evidence that jet lag exposure may worsen stress-induced depression and age-related abnormalities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31314053	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314053	aging
Omics : a journal of integrative biology	Next-Generation (Glycomic) Biomarkers for Cardiometabolic Health: A Community-Based Study of Immunoglobulin G 	Cardiovascular disease is a common complex trait that calls for next-generation biomarkers for precision diagnostics and therapeutics. The most common type of post-translational protein modification involves glycosylation. Glycans participate in key intercellular and intracellular functions, such as protein quality control, cell adhesion, cell-cell recognition, signal transduction, cell proliferation, and cell differentiation. In this context, immunoglobulin G (IgG) 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313980	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313980	aging
Autophagy	Suppressing the dark side of autophagy.	A wide variety of genetic, pharmacological and nutrient manipulations that extend lifespan in model organisms do so in a manner dependent upon increased autophagic flux. However, our recent findings suggest that when mitochondrial membrane integrity is compromised, macroautophagy/autophagy can be detrimental. In 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313620	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313620	aging
Cellular physiology and biochemistry : international journal of experimental cellular physiology, biochemistry, and pharmacology	Glycyrrhizic Acid Prevents Oxidative Stress Mediated DNA Damage Response through Modulation of Autophagy in Ultraviolet-B-Irradiated Human Primary Dermal Fibroblasts.	The present study links autophagy induction by GA as the main mechanism in the prevention of DNA damage and provides a mechanistic basis for the photoprotective effect of GA and suggests that GA can be potentially developed as a promising agent against UV-B induced skin photo-damage.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313540	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313540	aging
American journal of medical genetics. Part A	Equipoise of recent estimated Down syndrome live births in Japan.	To support people with Down syndrome (DS), it is essential to know and predict the number of live births of children with this condition. In this study, we estimated DS live birth rates on the basis of maternal age distribution and numbers of births in the general population, the maternal-age specific chance for a live birth of a child with DS, and the prenatal diagnosis/termination rate. The total number of live births in Japan decreased to less than 1 million in 2016 and the percentage of women aged 35 years old or over giving birth has increased by sixfold. Prenatal genetic testing in Japan has gradually become more widespread, and 20% of all cases of DS were diagnosed prenatally in 2016. Meanwhile, the annual projected number of DS live births has remained steady at around 2,200 (22 per 10,000 births). In 2016, it was estimated that 70% of all DS babies were born to women of advanced maternal age (AMA). Given that Japan is facing a decreasing birth rate and an aging population, adoption of the practice of prenatal genetic testing for AMA has balanced the number of DS births over the last 7 years from 2010.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313514	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313514	aging
Journal of cachexia, sarcopenia and muscle	Muscle-specific changes in protein synthesis with aging and reloading after disuse atrophy.	These data add to the growing body of literature that indicate that changes with age, including following disuse atrophy, differ by muscle. In addition, our findings lead to additional questions of the underlying mechanisms by which some muscles are maintained with age while others are not.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313502	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313502	aging
Aging cell	PGC-1α, a potential therapeutic target against kidney aging.	Aging is defined as changes in an organism over time. The proportion of the aged population is markedly increasing worldwide. The kidney, as an essential organ with a high energy requirement, is one of the most susceptible organs to aging. It is involved in glucose metabolism via gluconeogenesis, glucose filtration and reabsorption, and glucose utilization. Proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTECs) depend on lipid metabolism to meet the high demand for ATP. Recent studies have shown that aging-related kidney dysfunction is highly associated with metabolic changes in the kidney. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha (PGC-1α), a transcriptional coactivator, plays a major role in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis, peroxisomal biogenesis, and glucose and lipid metabolism. PGC-1α is abundant in tissues, including kidney PTECs, which demand high energy. Many in vitro and in vivo studies have demonstrated that the activation of PGC-1α by genetic or pharmacological intervention prevents telomere shortening and aging-related changes in the skeletal muscle, heart, and brain. The activation of PGC-1α can also prevent kidney dysfunction in various kidney diseases. Therefore, a better understanding of the effect of PGC-1α activation in various organs on aging and kidney diseases may unveil a potential therapeutic strategy against kidney aging.	2019	eng	Review	England	31313501	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313501	aging
Journal of intellectual disability research : JIDR	Heterogeneity in age at death for adults with developmental disability.	Research on age at death for adults with developmental disability must account for heterogeneity among disability types in order to ensure reliable estimates. Failure to do so conceals important differences between disability types, which can misguide public health and preventive care efforts to reduce premature mortality and/or provide aging-related supports.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313415	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313415	aging
The International journal of health planning and management	The causes of aging and relationship between aging and health expenditure: An econometric causality analysis for Turkey.	As aging has multiple social, political, and economic effects, the development and implementation of new policies toward the elderly and aging of population are very important.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313379	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313379	aging
GeroScience	An expanding GSK3 network: implications for aging research.	The last few decades of longevity research have been very exciting. We now know that longevity and healthspan can be manipulated across species, from unicellular eukaryotes to nonhuman primates, and that while aging itself is inevitable, how we age is malleable. Numerous dietary, genetic, and pharmacological studies now point to links between metabolism and growth regulation as a central aspect in determining longevity and, perhaps more importantly, health with advancing age. Here, we focus on a relatively new player in aging studies GSK3, glycogen synthase kinase, a key factor in growth and metabolism whose name fails to convey the extensive breadth of its role in cellular adaptation. First, we provide a brief overview of GSK3, touching on those aspects that are likely relevant to aging. Then, we outline the role of GSK3 in cellular functions including growth signaling, cell fate, and metabolism. Next, we describe evidence demonstrating a direct role for GSK3 in a range of age-related diseases, despite the fact that they differ considerably in their etiology and pathology. Finally, we discuss the role that GSK3 may play in normative aging and how GSK3 might be a suitable target to oppose age-related disease vulnerability.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31313216	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313216	aging
MMW Fortschritte der Medizin	[Sleep in the elderly].	 	2019	ger	Review	Germany	31313174	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313174	aging
Drugs	Targeting BCL2 in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia and Other Hematologic Malignancies.	Apoptosis, the process of programmed cell death, occurs normally during development and aging. Members of the B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2) family of proteins are central regulators of apoptosis, and resistance to apoptosis is one of the hallmarks of cancer. Targeting the apoptotic pathway via BCL2 inhibitors has been considered a promising treatment strategy in the past decade. Initial efforts with small molecule BH3 mimetics such as ABT-737 and ABT-263 (navitoclax) pioneered the development of the first-in-class Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved oral BCL2 inhibitor, venetoclax. Venetoclax was approved for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia, and is now being studied in a number of hematologic malignancies. Several other inhibitors targeting different BCL2 family members are now in early stages of development.	2019	eng	Review	New Zealand	31313099	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313099	aging
Current nutrition reports	Nutrition and Metabolic Profiles in the Natural History of Dementia: Recent Insights from Systems Biology and Life Course Epidemiology.	The aging of reference population-based cohort studies, the increasing availability of cutting-edge biomarkers (e.g., brain imaging, metabolomics) and the refinement of statistical tools to model complex exposures and dynamical health outcomes have yielded substantial progress in the understanding of dementia. Systems biology coupled with life-course epidemiology will pave the way toward novel precision nutrition approaches for prevention and management of dementia.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31313074	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313074	aging
Surgical endoscopy	Laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy in elderly patients.	Aging patients have higher overall morbidity than younger patients in LPD. However, for aging population who need to undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy, LPD might have some advantages over OPD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312964	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312964	aging
Wiener klinische Wochenschrift	Challenges in rehabilitation of patients with nontraumatic spinal cord dysfunction due to tumors : A narrative review.	The incidence of cancer-associated non-traumatic spinal cord dysfunction is rising due to population aging and better cancer treatment. The overall benefit of rehabilitation in specialized facilities for traumatic spinal cord dysfunction has been confirmed many times. Because of their fragility and multiple comorbidities cancer patients still face challenges to complete rehabilitation in the spinal rehabilitation facilities. In this narrative review we describe specific aspects, challenges in rehabilitation and opportunities to improve care. A literature search was performed in the PubMed database from 1 January 1978 to 30 November 2018. The focus was to find publications that discuss challenges and opportunities for rehabilitation of patients with non-traumatic spinal cord dysfunction due to a tumor. Most publications described the benefits of rehabilitation in specialized facilities. There were only few publications about survival and functional outcomes after rehabilitation for this patient population. Overall benefits including fewer complications associated with spinal cord dysfunction, less pain and depression, and better quality of life were shown. Within the past decades increasing number of publications revealed a growing interest for this group of patients. Despite major progress in cancer treatment, patients still have a limited vital prognosis and access to specialized rehabilitation units because of the concerns about the medical complexity. Patients with spinal cord tumors can benefit in areas of functionality, mood, quality of life, and survival from inpatient rehabilitation programs, in spite of the increased medical comorbidities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Austria	31312916	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312916	aging
JAMA neurology	Associations of Physical Activity and β-Amyloid With Longitudinal Cognition and Neurodegeneration in Clinically Normal Older Adults.	Greater physical activity and lower vascular risk independently attenuated the negative association of Aβ burden with cognitive decline and neurodegeneration in asymptomatic individuals. These findings suggest that engaging in physical activity and lowering vascular risk may have additive protective effects on delaying the progression of Alzheimer disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312836	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312836	aging
Communications biology	High-Throughput Yeast Aging Analysis for Cryptococcus (HYAAC) microfluidic device streamlines aging studies in 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312725	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312725	aging
Molecular therapy. Methods & clinical development	Rapamycin Rescues Age-Related Changes in Muscle-Derived Stem/Progenitor Cells from Progeroid Mice.	Aging-related loss of adult stem cell function contributes to impaired tissue regeneration. Mice deficient in zinc metalloproteinase STE24 (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312666	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312666	aging
Parkinson's disease	Age Matters: Objective Gait Assessment in Early Parkinson's Disease Using an RGB-D Camera.	Gait speed, swing, and stance times are useful for differentiating PD patients from controls. Quantitative gait parameters measured by an RGB-D camera can complement clinical assessment of PD patients. The analysis of these spatiotemporal variables should consider the age of the subject.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312423	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312423	aging
American journal of translational research	Morphometric analysis of the non-epithelial areas of mouse bronchioles through the normal aging process.	Aging is associated with changes in the structure and function of the lung that may increase susceptibility to chronic lung diseases. The aim of this study was the morphometric assessment of the non-epithelial areas of the bronchioles of mouse through the normal aging process. Lungs from CD1 mice at the age of 2, 6, 12, 18, or 24 months were fixed in neutral-buffered formalin and paraffin-embedded. Sections were cut, stained with Masson trichrome, and examined using a light microscope. High-resolution color images were captured using a camera linked to image analysis software to measure areas and lengths. We observed in the bronchioles through the aging process an increase of the total area, an increase of the lumen area, and a decrease of the wall area. In conclusion, our results revealed structural changes in the bronchioles of mouse through the normal aging process. These alterations are likely to contribute to development of chronic lung diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312374	aging
Frontiers in aging neuroscience	Differential Associations Between Distinct Components of Cognitive Function and Mobility: Implications for Understanding Aging, Turning and Dual-Task Walking.	Our results extend converging evidence of the involvement of executive functions and processing speed in specific aspects of mobility, along with the role of language. The study has important implications for aging in terms of both assessment and rehabilitation of cognition and gait as well as for the emerging dual-tasking theories and the role of the neural pathways involved in mobility.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312137	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312137	aging
Frontiers in aging neuroscience	Greater Anteroposterior Default Mode Network Functional Connectivity in Long-Term Elderly Yoga Practitioners.	Large-scale brain networks exhibit changes in functional connectivity during the aging process. Recent literature data suggests that Yoga and other contemplative practices may revert, at least in part, some of the aging effects in brain functional connectivity, including the Default Mode Network (DMN). The aim of this cross-sectional investigation was to compare resting-state functional connectivity of the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and posterior cingulate cortex-precuneus (PCC-Precuneus) in long-term elderly Yoga practitioners and healthy paired Yoga-naïve controls. Two paired groups: yoga (Y-20 women, Hatha Yoga practitioners; practicing a minimum of twice a week with a frequency of at least 8 years) and a control group (C-20 women, Yoga-naïve, matched by age, years of formal education, and physical activity) were evaluated for: Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL), and open-eyes resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)-seed to voxel connectivity analysis (CONN toolbox 17.f) with pre-processing-realignment and unwarping, slice-timing correction, segmentation, normalization, outlier detection, and spatial filtering. The analysis included 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312135	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312135	aging
Frontiers in aging neuroscience	Decoding the Role of Platelets and Related MicroRNAs in Aging and Neurodegenerative Disorders.	Platelets are anucleate cells that circulate in blood and are essential components of the hemostatic system. During aging, platelet numbers decrease and their aggregation capacity is reduced. Platelet dysfunctions associated with aging can be linked to molecular alterations affecting several cellular systems that include cytoskeleton rearrangements, signal transduction, vesicular trafficking, and protein degradation. Age platelets may adopt a phenotype characterized by robust secretion of extracellular vesicles that could in turn account for about 70-90% of blood circulating vesicles. Interestingly these extracellular vesicles are loaded with messenger RNAs and microRNAs that may have a profound impact on protein physiology at the systems level. Age platelet dysfunction is also associated with accumulation of reactive oxygen species. Thereby understanding the mechanisms of aging in platelets as well as their age-dependent dysfunctions may be of interest when evaluating the contribution of aging to the onset of age-dependent pathologies, such as those affecting the nervous system. In this review we summarize the findings that link platelet dysfunctions to neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Huntington's Disease, and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. We discuss the role of platelets as drivers of protein dysfunctions observed in these pathologies, their association with aging and the potential clinical significance of platelets, and related miRNAs, as peripheral biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of neurodegenerative diseases.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312134	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312134	aging
Frontiers in aging neuroscience	Subjective Cognitive Decline and Nighttime Sleep Alterations, a Longitudinal Analysis.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312133	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312133	aging
Scientific reports	Different Antioxidant Efficacy of Two Mn	Oxidative stress due to excess superoxide anion ([Formula: see text]) produced by dysfunctional mitochondria is a key pathogenic event of aging and ischemia-reperfusion diseases. Here, a new [Formula: see text]-scavenging Mn	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311943	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311943	aging
Aging	Osteoprotegerin as a biomarker of geriatric frailty syndrome.	The lack of a univocal definition of frailty, a condition frequently found in the elderly population which is correlated with an increased risk of mortality, has prompted the search for clinical and laboratory parameters associated with this condition. Whereas OPG is a protein involved in different pathophysiological conditions including bone, vascular, immune and tumor disease and studies found a positive linear correlation between OPG and age we hypothesized that it may represent a frailty marker in the elderly.We conducted an observational study of 172 elderly subjects, with and without hip fracture, including a multidimensional geriatric evaluation and a laboratory evaluation, aimed to evaluate the association between OPG and frailty.Frailty Score was associated with FT3 and osteoprotegerin (OPG), regardless of fracture event. Excluding subjects with hip fracture, in whom the acute event had a direct effect on bone production of OPG, the Frailty Score showed a linear correlation with circulating levels of osteoprotegerin.In the elderly, an increase in osteoprotegerin levels may reflect a progressive accumulation of organ damage leading to the development of frailty. The correlation between OPG and Frailty Score found in our study points to its potential use as a biomarker for geriatric frailty syndrome.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311890	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311890	aging
Blood	TNF-alpha driven inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction define the platelet hyperreactivity of aging.	Aging and chronic inflammation are independent risk factors for the development of atherothrombosis and cardiovascular disease. We hypothesized that aging-associated inflammation promotes the development of platelet hyperreactivity and increases thrombotic risk during aging. Functional platelet studies in aged-frail adults and old mice demonstrated that their platelets are hyperreactive and form larger thrombi. We identified TNF- as the key aging-associated proinflammatory cytokine responsible for platelet hyperreactivity. We further showed that platelet hyperreactivity is neutralized by abrogating signaling through TNF- receptors in vivo in a mouse model of aging. Analysis of the bone marrow compartments showed significant platelet-biased hematopoiesis in old mice reflected by increased megakaryocyte-committed progenitor cells, megakaryocyte ploidy status and thrombocytosis. Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis of native mouse megakaryocytes showed significant reprogramming of inflammatory, metabolic and mitochondrial gene pathways in old mice that appeared to play a significant role in determining platelet hyperreactivity. Platelets from old mice (where TNF- was endogenously increased), and from young mice exposed to exogenous TNF- exhibited significant mitochondrial changes characterized by elevated mitochondrial mass and increased oxygen consumption during activation. These mitochondrial changes were mitigated upon TNF- blockade. Similar increases in platelet mitochondrial mass were seen in platelets from patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms, where TNF- levels are also increased. Furthermore, metabolomics studies of platelets from young and old mice demonstrated age-dependent metabolic profiles that may differentially poise platelets for activation. Altogether, we present previously-unrecognized evidence that TNF- critically regulates megakaryocytes resident in the bone marrow niche and aging-associated platelet hyperreactivity and thrombosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311815	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311815	aging
DNA repair	Roles of OGG1 in transcriptional regulation and maintenance of metabolic homeostasis.	Cellular damage produced by conditions generating oxidative stress have far-reaching implications in human disease that encompass, but are not restricted to aging, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, airway inflammation/asthma, cancer, and metabolic syndrome including visceral obesity, insulin resistance, fatty liver disease, and dyslipidemia. Although there are numerous sources and cellular targets of oxidative stress, this review will highlight literature that has investigated downstream consequences of oxidatively-induced DNA damage in both nuclear and mitochondrial genomes. The presence of such damage can in turn, directly and indirectly modulate cellular transcriptional and repair responses to such stressors. As such, the persistence of base damage can serve as a key regulator in coordinated gene-response cascades. Conversely, repair of these DNA lesions serves as both a suppressor of mutagenesis and by inference carcinogenesis, and as a signal for the cessation of ongoing oxidative stress. A key enzyme in all these processes is 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1), which, via non-catalytic binding to oxidatively-induced DNA damage in promoter regions, serves as a nucleation site around which changes in large-scale regulation of inflammation-associated gene expression can occur. Further, the catalytic function of OGG1 can alter the three-dimensional structure of specialized DNA sequences, leading to changes in transcriptional profiles. This review will concentrate on adverse deleterious health effects that are associated with both the diminution of OGG1 activity via population-specific polymorphic variants and the complete loss of OGG1 in murine models. This mouse model displays diet- and age-related induction of metabolic syndrome, highlighting a key role for OGG1 in protecting against these phenotypes. Conversely, recent investigations using murine models having enhanced global expression of a mitochondrial-targeted OGG1 demonstrate that they are highly resistant to diet-induced disease. These data suggest strategies through which therapeutic interventions could be designed for reducing or limiting adverse human health consequences to these ubiquitous stressors.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31311771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311771	aging
The American journal of geriatric psychiatry : official journal of the American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry	Particulate Air Pollutants and Trajectories of Depressive Symptoms in Older Women.	Long-term exposure to ambient fine particles was associated with increased depressive symptoms among older women without prior depression or cognitive impairment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311712	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311712	aging
Trends in cardiovascular medicine	Evaluating and managing bradycardia.	Bradycardia is a commonly observed arrhythmia and a frequent occasion for cardiac consultation. Defined as a heart rate of less than 50-60 bpm, bradycardia can be observed as a normal phenomenon in young athletic individuals, and in patients as part of normal aging or disease (Table 1). Pathology that produces bradycardia may occur within the sinus node, atrioventricular (AV) nodal tissue, and the specialized His-Purkinje conduction system. Given the overlap of heart rate ranges with non-pathologic changes, assessment of symptoms is a critical component in the evaluation and management of bradycardia. Treatment should rarely be prescribed solely on the basis of a heart rate lower than an arbitrary cutoff or a pause above certain duration. In the 2018 ACC/AHA/HRS Guideline on the Evaluation and Management of Patients with Bradycardia and Cardiac Conduction Delay (referred to hereafter as the 2018 Bradycardia Guideline), there was a significant shift in emphasis from prior guidelines that emphasized device-based implantation recommendations to a focus on evaluation and management of disease states [1,2]. In this review, we will highlight the changes in the new guideline as well as describe the key elements in evaluation and management of patients presenting with bradycardia.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31311698	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311698	aging
BMC health services research	Quality of primary care delivery and productive interactions among community-living frail older persons and their general practitioners and practice nurses.	Frail community-dwelling older persons' perspectives on quality of primary care were associated with perceived productivity of their interactions with the GP and practice nurse in both the intervention group and the control group. We found no significant differences in overall perceived quality of care and perceived patient-professional interaction between the intervention group and control group at baseline and follow-up. In times of population aging it is necessary to invest in high-quality care delivery for frail older persons and productive interactions with them.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311531	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311531	aging
Annals of rehabilitation medicine	Emerging Issues in Cerebral Palsy Associated With Aging: A Physiatrist Perspective.	The population of adults diagnosed with cerebral palsy (CP) is increasing along with the survival rate of children born with the disability. Adults with CP need health services for the continued monitoring and management of their condition. Moreover, the development of additional health problems in adulthood increases the need for ongoing access to health services. Adults with CP manifest a higher rate of chronic health conditions and eventual decline in strength and functional reserve, deterioration in physical activity, increased risk of musculoskeletal complications, and gradual changes in swallowing ability. They are also reported to exhibit difficulty engaging socially and have a low health-related quality of life (QOL). However, there are a large number of adults with CP who cannot access medical services adequately and are therefore not effectively treated. To overcome these apparent challenges, we need to fully comprehend the healthcare needs of adults with CP to develop adultfocused health services. Further research is needed regarding the impact of physical activity, nutrition, sarcopenia, myeloradiculopathy, and swallowing function on QOL.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31311245	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311245	aging
International journal of molecular sciences	Premature Vascular Aging in Guinea Pigs Affected by Fetal Growth Restriction.	Cardiovascular risk associated with fetal growth restriction (FGR) could result from an early impaired vascular function. However, whether this effect results in premature vascular aging has not been addressed. We studied the ex vivo reactivity of carotid and femoral arteries in fetal (near term), adults (eight months-old) and aged (16 months-old) guinea pigs in normal (control) and FGR offspring. Additionally, an epigenetic marker of vascular aging (i.e., LINE-1 DNA methylation) was evaluated in human umbilical artery endothelial cells (HUAEC) from control and FGR subjects. Control guinea pig arteries showed an increased contractile response (KCl-induced) and a progressive impairment of NO-mediated relaxing responses as animals get older. FGR was associated with an initial preserved carotid artery reactivity as well as a later significant impairment in NO-mediated responses. Femoral arteries from FGR fetuses showed an increased contractility but a decreased relaxing response compared with control fetuses, and both responses were impaired in FGR-adults. Finally, FGR-HUAEC showed decreased LINE-1 DNA methylation compared with control-HUAEC. These data suggest that the aging of vascular function occurs by changes in NO-mediated responses, with limited alterations in contractile capacity. Further, these effects are accelerated and imposed at early stages of development in subjects exposed to a suboptimal intrauterine environment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311132	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311132	aging
Nutrients	The Preventive Effects of Greenshell Mussel (	The prevalence of osteoarthritis (OA) is rising worldwide, with the most pronounced increase being in the category of metabolic-associated osteoarthritis (MetOA). This is predicted to worsen with the global rise in aging societies and obesity. To address this health burden, research is being conducted to identify foods that can reduce the incidence or severity of MetOA. Oil from the Greenshell mussel (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311115	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311115	aging
Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift (1946)	[Gut Microbiome and Cardiovascular Disease].	Aging, physical activity, bodyweight and diet are well established risk factors for cardiovascular disease. For all of these factors a great impact on the intestinal microbiome has been described. The current review will discuss available data regarding the role of the gut microbiome in regulating blood pressure, vascular function and its possible contribution to atherosclerosis and heart failure.	2019	ger	Journal Article	Germany	31311045	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311045	aging
Dementia and geriatric cognitive disorders	Validation of the Sinhala Version of the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination-Revised for the Detection of Dementia in Sri Lanka: Comparison with the Mini-Mental Status Examination and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment.	The ACE-R s is sensitive, specific and reliable to detect dementia in persons aged ≥50 years in a Sinhala-speaking population and its diagnostic accuracy is superior to previously validated tools (MMSE and MoCA).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311022	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311022	aging
Dementia and geriatric cognitive disorders	Prevalence and Incidence of Mild Cognitive Impairment across Subtypes, Age, and Sex.	Our findings concur with previous research advocating that MCI is a heterogeneous concept, since the prevalence and incidence estimates differed substantially according to age, MCI subtype, and severity of cognitive impairment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311017	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311017	aging
American journal of nephrology	Hospitalization Risk among Older Adults with Chronic Kidney Disease.	In older adults, decreased eGFR, increased ACR, and KDIGO risk stages based on a combination of these measures, were strong risk factors for hospitalization. These relationships were consistent, regardless of the marker used to estimate GFR, but the use of cystatin C resulted in a substantially higher prevalence of CKD than the use of creatinine. Older adults in the population with very high risk stages of CKD have hospitalization rates exceeding 500 per 1,000 person-years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311014	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311014	aging
Journal of physical activity & health	Feasibility of a Home-Based Balance Intervention in Middle-Aged Women Using Wii Fit Plus®.	The results suggest that the Wii Fit Plus® is appropriate for home-based interventions in middle-aged women. Modest improvements in balance indicate that this may be an effective means to improve or maintain balance in older women. More research is needed to determine compliance and benefits to reducing fall risk in durations exceeding 12 weeks.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310993	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310993	aging
Journal of physical activity & health	Randomized Controlled Trial of Primary Health Care Strategies for the Promotion of Leisure-Time Physical Activity Among Older Brazilians.	Results indicate that interventions with CRG are effective in producing sustained changes in physical activity among older Brazilians.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310991	aging
Nutrition (Burbank, Los Angeles County, Calif.)	Long-term changes in nutritional status are associated with functional and mortality outcomes among community-living older adults.	Changes in nutritional status are associated with adverse health outcomes, and should be monitored with simple screening tools to identify older adults at high risk for adverse functional and mortality outcomes for selective nutritional interventions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310959	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310959	aging
Urology	Nocturia: A Highly Prevalent Disorder with Multifaceted Consequences.	Nocturia is a bothersome, multifactorial condition with many underlying causes and contributing factors. Nocturnal polyuria (NP; overproduction of urine at night) is a frequent component. The prevalence of nocturia increases with age; specific estimates of prevalence are influenced by frequency thresholds used to define it. There is a tendency toward higher prevalence in young women than young men, which is reversed in later life. The association between frequency of nocturnal voiding and sleep disruption is well-documented. Nocturia correlates strongly with shorter sleep during the first part (2-4 hours) of the night, during which the first nocturnal void often occurs. A short time to first void after sleep onset (often referred to as "first uninterrupted sleep period") is associated with increased daytime dysfunction and decreased sleep quality and/or sleep efficiency. Adverse health consequences related to nocturia include poor sleep, depression, reduced quality of life, and increased risk of morbidity, mortality, falls, and fractures; studies have been able to establish a causal role for nocturia in only some of these. The potential impact of nocturia on health increases with age. By age 80, 80% of people will rise at least once per night to void. Despite its associated bother, nocturia is often accepted as a natural consequence of aging and many people do not seek help. Women, in particular, may be reluctant to report nocturia. This article reviews the prevalence of nocturia, possible impact on sleep, mortality and morbidity, and falls, and its importance in the elderly/frail population and women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310770	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310770	aging
Aging cell	Changes in presynaptic calcium signalling accompany age-related deficits in hippocampal LTP and cognitive impairment.	The loss of cognitive function accompanying healthy aging is not associated with extensive or characteristic patterns of cell death, suggesting it is caused by more subtle changes in synaptic properties. In the hippocampal CA1 region, long-term potentiation requires stronger stimulation for induction in aged rats and mice and long-term depression becomes more prevalent. An age-dependent impairment of postsynaptic calcium homeostasis may underpin these effects. We have examined changes in presynaptic calcium signalling in aged mice using a transgenic mouse line (SyG37) that expresses a genetically encoded calcium sensor in presynaptic terminals. SyG37 mice showed an age-dependent decline in cognitive abilities in behavioural tasks that require hippocampal processing including the Barnes maze, T-maze and object location but not recognition tests. The incidence of LTP was significantly impaired in animals over 18 months of age. These effects of aging were accompanied by a persistent increase in resting presynaptic calcium, an increase in the presynaptic calcium signal following Schaffer collateral fibre stimulation, an increase in postsynaptic fEPSP slope and a reduction in paired-pulse facilitation. These effects were not caused by synapse proliferation and were of presynaptic origin since they were evident in single presynaptic boutons. Aged synapses behaved like younger ones when the extracellular calcium concentration was reduced. Raising extracellular calcium had little effect on aged synapses but altered the properties of young synapses into those of their aged counterparts. These effects can be readily explained by an age-dependent change in the properties or numbers of presynaptic calcium channels.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310431	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310431	aging
Journal of cellular biochemistry	The protective effect of cycloastragenol on aging mouse circadian rhythmic disorder induced by d-galactose.	Aging process in mammals is associated with a decline in amplitude and a long period of circadian behaviors which are regulated by a central circadian regulator in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and local oscillators in peripheral tissues. It is unclear whether enhancing clock function can retard aging. Using fibroblasts expressing per2::lucSV and senescent cells, we revealed cycloastragenol (CAG), a natural aglycone derivative from astragaloside IV, as a clock amplitude enhancing small molecule. CAG could activate telomerase to antiaging, but no reports focused on its effects on circadian rhythm disorders in aging mice. Here we analyze the potential effects of CAG on d-galactose-induced aging mice on the circadian behavior and expression of clock genes. For this purpose, CAG (20 mg/kg orally), was administered daily to d-galactose (150 mg/kg, subcutaneous) mice model of aging for 6 weeks. An actogram analysis of free-running activity of these mice showed that CAG significantly enhances the locomotor activity. We further found that CAG increase expressions of per2 and bmal1 genes in liver and kidney of aging mouse. Furthermore, CAG enhanced clock protein BMAL1 and PER2 levels in aging mouse liver and SCN. Our results indicated that the CAG could restore the behavior of circadian rhythm in aging mice induced by d-galactose. These data of present study suggested that CAG could be used as a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of age-related circadian rhythm disruption.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310357	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310357	aging
Journal of bone and mineral research : the official journal of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research	Association between abdominal aortic calcification, bone mineral density and fracture in older women.	Although a relationship between vascular disease and osteoporosis has been recognized, its clinical importance for fracture risk evaluation remains uncertain. Abdominal aortic calcification (AAC), a recognized measure of vascular disease detected on single-energy images performed for vertebral fracture assessment, may also identify increased osteoporosis risk. In a prospective 10-year study of 1,024 older predominantly Caucasian women (mean age 75.0±2.6 years) from the Perth Longitudinal Study of Aging cohort we evaluated the association between AAC, skeletal structure and fractures. AAC and spine fracture were assessed at the time of hip densitometry and heel quantitative ultrasound. AAC was scored 0 to 24 (AAC24) and categorized into; low AAC (score 0 and 1, n=459), moderate AAC (score 2-5, n=373) and severe AAC (score > 6, n=192). Prevalent vertebral fractures were calculated using the Genant semi-quantitative method. AAC24 scores were inversely related to hip bone mineral density (BMD) (r	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310354	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310354	aging
eLife	The transcription factor Hey and nuclear lamins specify and maintain cell identity.	The inability of differentiated cells to maintain their identity is a hallmark of age-related diseases. We found that the transcription factor Hey supervises the identity of differentiated enterocytes (ECs) in the adult 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310235	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310235	aging
International journal of fertility & sterility	Estimating The Annual Abortion Rate in Kerman, Iran: Comparison of Direct, Network Scale-Up, and Single Sample Count Methods.	The present estimates are higher than previously reported ones. The results of three methods more or less supported each other confirming the internal validity of our estimates.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Iran	31310075	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310075	aging
eLife	Expression of WIPI2B counteracts age-related decline in autophagosome biogenesis in neurons.	Autophagy defects are implicated in multiple late-onset neurodegenerative diseases including Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's, Huntington's, and Parkinson's diseases. Since aging is the most common shared risk factor in neurodegeneration, we assessed rates of autophagy in mammalian neurons during aging. We identified a significant decrease in the rate of constitutive autophagosome biogenesis during aging and observed pronounced morphological defects in autophagosomes in neurons from aged mice. While early stages of autophagosome formation were unaffected, we detected the frequent production of stalled LC3B-negative isolation membranes in neurons from aged mice. These stalled structures recruited the majority of the autophagy machinery, but failed to develop into LC3B-positive autophagosomes. Importantly, ectopically expressing WIPI2B effectively restored autophagosome biogenesis in aged neurons. This rescue is dependent on the phosphorylation state of WIPI2B at the isolation membrane, suggesting a novel therapeutic target in age-associated neurodegeneration.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309927	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309927	aging
International psychogeriatrics	Longitudinal relationships among depressive symptoms and three types of memory self-report in cognitively intact older adults.	Our findings highlight the importance of testing the unique associations of different types of self-reported memory problems with depressive symptoms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309918	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309918	aging
The Canadian journal of neurological sciences. Le journal canadien des sciences neurologiques	The Comprehensive Assessment of Neurodegeneration and Dementia: Canadian Cohort Study.	Availability of data from the COMPASS-ND study will provide a major stimulus for dementia research in Canada in the coming years.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309917	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309917	aging
Canadian journal on aging = La revue canadienne du vieillissement	Culturally Responsive Supports for Metis Elders and Metis Family Caregivers.	ABSTRACTDespite considerable academic attention to the role of family caregivers within the general population, little research has been conducted with Indigenous families. This qualitative study aims to fill that gap by focusing on the experiences of Metis caregivers providing care for older Metis adults. Focus groups and interviews were conducted with Metis family caregivers (n = 79), Metis Elders (n = 11) and formal caregivers (n = 8). Although there are considerable parallels in the caregiving experiences identified in this Metis study with those already documented in the literature, there are nonetheless important differences for providing culturally responsive care to Metis seniors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31309912	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309912	aging
Canadian journal on aging = La revue canadienne du vieillissement	Alaska Native Elders' Perspectives on Physical Activity and Successful Aging.	ABSTRACTPhysical activity is widely considered to be a significant contributing factor to how "successfully" one ages. There are, however, certain groups whose voices have not been widely heard in discussions around physical activity and aging, particularly those from diverse cultural backgrounds. In this research, we explored how Alaska Native Elders perceive the role of physical activity as they age and its contribution to successful aging. Based on semi-structured interviews with 41 Elders, the results show that engaging in physical activity was not just seen as a personal responsibility to maintain health and age successfully, but also as a way to resist Western society's dominant view of older adults as deteriorating and declining by being physically active regardless of age; to improve or maintain their physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual health; and/or to enable them to continue participating in subsistence activities that are rooted in their culture and traditional roles as Elders.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31309902	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309902	aging
Aging cell	New label-free automated survival assays reveal unexpected stress resistance patterns during C. elegans aging.	Caenorhabditis elegans is an excellent model for high-throughput experimental approaches but lacks an automated means to pinpoint time of death during survival assays over a short time frame, that is, easy to implement, highly scalable, robust, and versatile. Here, we describe an automated, label-free, high-throughput method using death-associated fluorescence to monitor nematode population survival (dubbed LFASS for label-free automated survival scoring), which we apply to severe stress and infection resistance assays. We demonstrate its use to define correlations between age, longevity, and severe stress resistance, and its applicability to parasitic nematodes. The use of LFASS to assess the effects of aging on susceptibility to severe stress revealed an unexpected increase in stress resistance with advancing age, which was largely autophagy-dependent. Correlation analysis further revealed that while severe thermal stress resistance positively correlates with lifespan, severe oxidative stress resistance does not. This supports the view that temperature-sensitive protein-handling processes more than redox homeostasis underpin aging in C. elegans. That the ages of peak resistance to infection, severe oxidative stress, heat shock, and milder stressors differ markedly suggests that stress resistance and health span do not show a simple correspondence in C. elegans.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31309734	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309734	aging
Geriatrics & gerontology international	Similarities and differences in health-related behavior clustering among older adults in Eastern and Western countries: A latent class analysis of global aging cohorts.	We provide a person-centered understanding of HRB clustering of older adults over selected countries by sex, informing tailored health promotion for the target population. Geriatr Gerontol Int 2019; ••: ••-••.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Japan	31309695	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309695	aging
Journal of cellular physiology	MicroRNA-487a-3p functions as a new tumor suppressor in prostate cancer by targeting CCND1.	Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the major health problems of the aging male. The roles of dysregulated microRNAs in PCa remain unclear. In this study, we mined the public published data and found that miR-487a-3p was significantly downregulated in 38 pairs of clinical prostate tumor tissues compared with the normal tissues. We further verified this result by in situ hybridization on tissue chip and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) in PCa/normal cells. miR-487a-3p targeting of cyclin D1 (CCND1) was identified using bioinformatics, qRT-PCR and western blot analyses. The cellular proliferation, cell cycle, migration, and invasion were assessed by cell counting kit-8, flow cytometry analysis and transwell assay. We discovered that overexpression of miR-487a-3p suppressed PCa cell growth, migration, invasion by directly targeting CCND1. Knockdown of CCND1 in PCa cells showed similar results. Meanwhile, the expression level of CCND1 was significantly upregulated in the PCa tissues and cell lines, which presented negative correlation with the expression of miR-487a-3p. More important, we demonstrated significantly reduced growth of xenograft tumors of stable miR-487a-3p-overexpressed human PCa cells in nude mice. Taken together, for the first time, our results revealed that miR-487a-3p as a tumor suppressor of PCa could target CCND1. Our finding might reveal miR-487a-3p could be potentially contributed to the pathogenesis and a clinical biomarker or the new potential therapeutic target of PCa.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309555	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309555	aging
Pain and therapy	Viscosupplementation for Management of Knee Osteoarthritis from an Indian Perspective: An Expert Consensus Report.	Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31309467	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309467	aging
Acta neurologica Belgica	Comparison of the effect of anterior and posterior neurosurgical treatment for cervical spondylotic myelopathy: a clinical outcome.	Cervical degenerative disease is the most common cause of acquired disability in patients over the age of 50. The incidence of cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is increasing with aging of the population. Surgical decompression is indicated for severe CSM. There is, however, insufficient evidence to prefer anterior over posterior surgical decompression technique for CSM. Our purpose was to identify groups of patients that would benefit from a chosen surgical approach with a better clinical outcome. We conducted a retrospective analysis of patients operated for CSM between 2007 and 2011. Patients were assessed according to the Nurick grading system. Preoperative and postoperative clinical details and MR imaging were analyzed. Treatment consisted of either anterior cervical discectomy with fusion (ACDF) or laminectomy without fusion. Over a period of 4 years, 90 patients were included. The mean age of patients was 64.5 ± 1.3 years. Of 90 included patients, 42 patients were treated with ACDF and 48 with laminectomy. Mean total Nurick grade recovery rate (NGRR) was 29.6% with 31.2% in ACDF and 27.7% in laminectomy. Mid-sagittal diameter of the cervical canal measured on MRI-T2 increased significantly more with laminectomy (4.4 mm) than ACDF (2.2 mm) (p < 0.001). The presence of preoperative spasticity or quadriparesis or a multilevel compression indicated a higher recovery on the Nurick scale. Surgical treatment of CSM leads to a significant improvement of the functional neurological status of the patient as well as an increase in the diameter of the cervical canal. No significant difference in Nurick recovery was found between ACDF and laminectomy indicating that clinical decision-making in our series was adequate. We were able to demonstrate that even severely disabled patients have a good chance of neurologic recovery after surgical treatment for CSM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31309455	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309455	aging
Quality of life research : an international journal of quality of life aspects of treatment, care and rehabilitation	Disabled life expectancy with and without stroke: a 10-year Japanese prospective cohort study.	Older adults who have experienced a stroke could experience a shorter total life expectancy, shorter disability-free life expectancy, and longer disabled life expectancy than those who have not experienced a stroke. These results can inform policymakers and rehabilitation practitioners on stroke survivor long-term care needs and their post-stroke health status.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31309398	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309398	aging
Clinical oral investigations	Fracture resistance of simulated immature roots using Biodentine and fiber post compared with different canal-filling materials under aging conditions.	Biodentine or composite resin combined with fiber post could be used to reinforce immature teeth with an apical Biodentine plug.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31309344	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309344	aging
Current treatment options in cardiovascular medicine	Conceptualizing the Risks of Coronary Heart Disease and Heart Failure Among People Aging with HIV: Sex-Specific Considerations.	Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is emerging as a major threat to healthy aging among people with HIV (PHIV). PHIV face heightened risks for coronary heart disease (CHD)/myocardial infarction (MI) and heart failure (HF), fueled by systemic immune activation and by metabolic dysregulation. Women with HIV (WHIV) evidence unique patterns of vascular and myocardial pathology as compared to men with HIV (MHIV). These patterns include a predilection to microvascular dysfunction and type II MI, as well as a penchant for diastolic dysfunction and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). Investigations are underway to understand how advanced reproductive aging among WHIV influences systemic immune activation and metabolic dysregulation en route to these CVD phenotypes. A key goal is to identify targeted CVD prevention strategies relevant to WHIV, particularly as efficacious treatment approaches to type II MI and HFpEF are lacking.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31309321	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309321	aging
European oral research	Fracture resistance of different implant supported ceramic abutment/crown systems.	A titanium base enhanced the fracture resistance of zirconia abutments. Thermomechanical aging decreased the fracture resistance of the tested ceramic abutment/crown systems. The major failure mode was the abutment fracture.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31309198	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309198	aging
European oral research	In vitro antibacterial activity of self-etch bio-active dental adhesives after artificial aging.	The incorporation of bio-active antibacterial components into adhesive systems may be considered as a fundamental component in inhibiting residual Streptococcus mutans when considering the antibacterial effect of fresh samples of bio-active adhesives.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31309190	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309190	aging
Acta myologica : myopathies and cardiomyopathies : official journal of the Mediterranean Society of Myology	Cardiac diseases as a predictor warning of hereditary muscle diseases. The case of laminopathies.	Mutations in the 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31309180	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309180	aging
Science advances	Cellular response to moderate chromatin architectural defects promotes longevity.	Changes in chromatin organization occur during aging. Overexpression of histones partially alleviates these changes and promotes longevity. We report that deletion of the histone H3-H4 minor locus 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309140	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309140	aging
Analytical cellular pathology (Amsterdam)	Recombinant 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31309036	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31309036	aging
Journal of ginseng research	A new role for the ginsenoside RG3 in antiaging via mitochondria function in ultraviolet-irradiated human dermal fibroblasts.	RG3 restores mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and membrane potential via its antioxidant effects in skin cells damaged by UV irradiation, leading to an increase in proteins linked with the extracellular matrix, cell proliferation, and antioxidant activity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31308815	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308815	aging
Clinical interventions in aging	Effects of a behavioral medicine intervention on pain, health, and behavior among community-dwelling older adults: a randomized controlled trial.	BMPI can be a suitable evidence-based intervention for community-dwelling older adults, even for those who are very old and frail. BMPI can support and promote an active aging and "age in place" for the target population, which is currently the main goal of all interventions in this field.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308644	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308644	aging
Clinical interventions in aging	Objective and perceived oral health status of elderly nursing home residents: a local survey in southern France.	Numerous factors influence elderly persons' perception of their true oral health. In order to improve our elders' quality of life, the necessary measures must be taken for the follow-up and regular monitoring of their oral health. At the same time, all possible means should be used and awareness should be raised to improve the health behavior and perception of patients and their entourage.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31308640	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308640	aging
Scientific reports	Suppressed Growth of (Fe, Cr	High-entropy alloys (HEAs) are promising materials for next-generation applications because of their mechanical properties, excellent high-temperature stability, and resistance against oxidation and corrosion. Although many researchers have investigated high-temperature HEA applications, few have considered low-temperature applications. Here we demonstrate an unprecedented intermetallic compound of (Fe, Cr, Co, Ni, Cu)Sn	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308462	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308462	aging
Scientific reports	Nicotinamide Augments the Anti-Inflammatory Properties of Resveratrol through PARP1 Activation.	Resveratrol (RSV) and nicotinamide (NAM) have garnered considerable attention due to their anti-inflammatory and anti-aging properties. NAM is a transient inhibitor of class III histone deacetylase SIRTs (silent mating type information regulation 2 homologs) and SIRT1 is an inhibitor of poly-ADP-ribose polymerase-1 (PARP1). The debate on the relationship between RSV and SIRT1 has precluded the use of RSV as a therapeutic drug. Recent work demonstrated that RSV facilitates tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase (TyrRS)-dependent activation of PARP1. Moreover, treatment with NAM is sufficient to facilitate the nuclear localization of TyrRS that activates PARP1. RSV and NAM have emerged as potent agonists of PARP1 through inhibition of SIRT1. In this study, we evaluated the effects of RSV and NAM on pro-inflammatory macrophages. Our results demonstrate that treatment with either RSV or NAM attenuates the expression of pro-inflammatory markers. Strikingly, the combination of RSV with NAM, exerts additive effects on PARP1 activation. Consistently, treatment with PARP1 inhibitor antagonized the anti-inflammatory effect of both RSV and NAM. For the first time, we report the ability of NAM to augment PARP1 activation, induced by RSV, and its associated anti-inflammatory effects mediated through the induction of BCL6 with the concomitant down regulation of COX-2.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308445	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308445	aging
Scientific reports	Environmentally-Controlled Near Infrared Spectroscopic Imaging of Bone Water.	We have designed an environmentally-controlled chamber for near infrared spectroscopic imaging (NIRSI) to monitor changes in cortical bone water content, an emerging biomarker related to bone quality assessment. The chamber is required to ensure repeatable spectroscopic measurements of tissues without the influence of atmospheric moisture. A calibration curve to predict gravimetric water content from human cadaveric cortical bone was created using NIRSI data obtained at six different lyophilization time points. Partial least squares (PLS) models successfully predicted bone water content that ranged from 0-10% (R = 0.96, p < 0.05, root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP) = 7.39%), as well as in the physiologic range of 4-10% of wet tissue weight (R = 0.87, p < 0.05, RMSEP = 14.5%). Similar results were obtained with univariate and bivariate regression models for prediction of water in the 0-10% range. Further, we identified two new NIR bone absorbances, at 6560 cm	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31308386	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308386	aging
Sexual medicine	Meta-Analysis of the Long-Term Efficacy and Tolerance of Tadalafil Daily Compared With Tadalafil On-Demand in Treating Men With Erectile Dysfunction.	Tadalafil daily provides a preferable therapeutic effect for ED with a lower incidence of treatment-emergent side effects relative to tadalafil on-demand after at least 24 weeks of long-term treatment. Zhou Z, Chen H, Wu J, et al. Meta-Analysis of the Long-Term Efficacy and Tolerance of Tadalafil Daily Compared With Tadalafil On-Demand in Treating Men With Erectile Dysfunction. J Sex Med 2019;XX:XXX-XXX.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31307951	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307951	aging
Neurobiology of aging	What are the earlier life contributions to reserve and resilience?	The brain's structures and functions arise from a combination of developmental processes and interaction with environmental experiences, beginning in utero and continuing throughout the lifespan. Broadly, the process that we think of as "successful aging" likely has its foundation in early life and is continuously shaped as life experiences are programmed into the brain in response to a changing environment. Thus, individual lifestyle choices and interventions aimed at increasing cognitive reserve and resilience could change the course of cognitive aging. To determine the relative efficacy of these approaches, we will need to understand how the timing of these interventions (e.g., age, duration, frequency) influences cognitive capacity through the lifespan. Although analysis of age-related changes in cognitive function reveals a general decline at the population level, it has become clear that there is great individual variance in the extent to which cognitive function changes with advanced age. The factors responsible for the individual differences in cognitive decline are unclear, but uncovering them with new analytical tools, epigenetic approaches, and subpopulation studies will provide a roadmap toward enhancing reserve and resilience in the population at large and preserving cognitive function in a greater number of aging individuals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31307838	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307838	aging
Environmental health and preventive medicine	Depressive symptoms in individuals with family members requiring ADL assistance.	The study results indicated higher depressive symptoms among those with family members requiring ADL assistance and those who care for such family members themselves. This suggests that an alternative to family caregiving is necessary, especially for the elderly, regardless of caregiver sex.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307389	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307389	aging
BMC bioinformatics	Stochastic modeling of aging cells reveals how damage accumulation, repair, and cell-division asymmetry affect clonal senescence and population fitness.	We conclude that damage segregation and division asymmetry, perhaps counterintuitively, are not necessarily beneficial from an evolutionary perspective.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307385	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307385	aging
Experimental biology and medicine (Maywood, N.J.)	Dietary protein and exercise for preservation of lean mass and perspectives on type 2 diabetes prevention.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31307203	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307203	aging
Revista brasileira de ortopedia	Association between bone mass and functional capacity among elderly people aged 80 years and over.	Dessa forma, a massa óssea do fêmur para idosos longevos do sexo masculino está associada à capacidade funcional. A avaliação constante da massa mineral óssea e a prática de atividade física ao longo da vida seriam medidas para prevenção das quedas em idosos.	2013	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31304162	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304162	aging
 	 	Bisphenol A (BPA, CAS #80-05-7) is a high-production-volume industrial chemical used as a monomer for polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins that have broad applications in consumer products, including storage containers for foods and beverages and medical devices. The potential toxicity resulting from chronic exposure to BPA as an indirect food additive is the concern addressed in this study. This study is part of the Consortium Linking Academic and Regulatory Insights on Bisphenol A Toxicity (CLARITY-BPA), a research program between the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) and the National Center for Toxicological Research (NCTR) of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), developed to bridge guideline-compliant research conducted at the FDA with hypothesis-based research investigations conducted by academia on the toxicity of BPA. The CLARITY-BPA research program has two components: 1) A “core” guideline-compliant chronic study conducted at NCTR according to FDA Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations and 2) studies of various endpoints, conducted by NIEHS-funded researchers at academic institutions using animals born to the same exposed pregnant rats as the core GLP study. The purpose of this research program was to evaluate chronic exposure to BPA over a broad dose range using traditional and non-traditional endpoints. It aimed to determine if non-traditional endpoints reveal toxicity not detected by traditional guideline study endpoints and provide mechanistic support for observations made in the guideline study. The current research report covers only data from the “core” guideline-compliant chronic study. The toxicity of BPA administered by oral gavage from gestation day (GD) 6 through the start of labor and then by oral gavage to pups from postnatal day (PND) 1 (day of birth = PND 0) until termination at one year or two years was examined in Sprague-Dawley rats from the NCTR breeding colony (Sprague-Dawley/CD23/NctrBR). BPA doses were 2.5, 25, 250, 2,500, and 25,000 μg/kg body weight (bw)/day. A vehicle (0.3% carboxymethylcellulose (CMC)) control group was also included. In addition to animals that were dosed daily throughout the study, a stop-dose study arm was included with animals dosed daily until PND 21 and then held without further treatment until termination to assess any effects that were due to early exposure only. Because many of the effects of BPA reported in the literature are associated with estrogen signaling pathways, two doses (0.05 and 0.5 μg/kg bw/day) of the orally active estrogen ethinyl estradiol (EE	2019	eng	Review	 	31305969	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305969	aging
Journal of cachexia, sarcopenia and muscle	Physical function-derived cut-points for the diagnosis of sarcopenia and dynapenia from the Canadian longitudinal study on aging.	The proposed function-derived cut-points established from this single, large, and contemporary Canadian cohort should be used for the identification of sarcopenia and dynapenia in Caucasian older adults. We advise on using criteria based on ALMI in the diagnosis of sarcopenia. The modest agreement between sarcopenia and dynapenia denotes potential distinct health implications justifying to study both components separately.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31307126	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307126	aging
Neuroepidemiology	Smaller Head Circumference Combined with Lower Education Predicts High Risk of Incident Dementia: The Shanghai Aging Study.	Our results suggest that smaller HC in combination with low education leads to a markedly increased risk of dementia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31307036	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31307036	aging
Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie	Resveratrol shifts energy metabolism to increase lipid oxidation in healthy old mice.	We conclude that a controlled dose of resveratrol activates fatty acid mobilization and degradation and inhibits fatty acid synthesis in old mice. This is the first time that these effects of resveratrol in lipid metabolism in healthy old (non-obese) animals are reported.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31306969	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306969	aging
Clinical neurology and neurosurgery	Cut off value in each gender and decade of 10-s grip and release and 10-s step test: A comparative study between 454 patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy and 818 healthy subjects.	The cut-off values in the 10-s G&R test and 10-s step decreased with age. When these quantiﬁable tests are used as screening tests of CSM, age and gender difference should be considered.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306894	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306894	aging
Neurobiology of aging	A 4R tauopathy develops without amyloid deposits in aged cat brains.	Human tauopathies are neurodegenerative diseases with accumulation of abnormally phosphorylated and aggregated tau proteins forming neurofibrillary tangles. We investigated the development of tau pathology in aged cat brains as a model of neurofibrillary tangle formation occurring spontaneously during aging. In 4 of 6 cats aged between 18 and 21 years, we found a somatodendritic accumulation of phosphorylated and aggregated tau in neurons and oligodendrocytes. Two of these 4 cats had no amyloid immunoreactivity. These tau inclusions were mainly composed of 4R tau isoforms and straight filaments and colocalized with the active form of the glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3). Cat brains with a tau pathology showed a significant cortical atrophy and neuronal loss. We demonstrate in this study the presence of a tau pathology in aged cat brains that develop independently of amyloid deposits. The colocalization of the active form of the GSK3 with tau inclusions as observed in human tauopathies suggests that this kinase could be responsible for the abnormal tau phosphorylation observed in aged cat brains, representing a mechanism of tau pathology development shared between a naturally occurring tauopathy in aged cats and human tauopathies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306814	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306814	aging
Neurobiology of aging	Late aging-associated increases in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia are accompanied by heightened neuroinflammation in the hemi-parkinsonian rat.	Aging is a primary risk factor for the development of Parkinson's disease (PD), and aging differentially predicts the incidence of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). The goal of this work was to establish whether late aging-associated exacerbation of LID would be related to neuroinflammation in the hemi-parkinsonian rat. Two studies were conducted in which adult (3 months) and aged (18 months) male Fischer 344 rats bearing unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the medial forebrain bundle were injected acutely with vehicle or L-DOPA (6 mg/kg). LID was quantified, and neuroinflammation was assessed postmortem via gene expression markers in the striatum (experiment 1) or through concurrent large-molecule microdialysis (experiment 2). In addition to exacerbating LID despite similar levels of striatal dopamine loss, late aging was associated with persistently elevated IL-1β gene expression ipsilateral to lesion, as well as a trend toward greater extracellular concentrations of IL-1β in response to acute L-DOPA treatment. In contrast, aged sham-operated rats displayed greater extracellular IL-6. Taken together, these data demonstrate an age-related vulnerability to LID and highlight potential neuroinflammatory mediators associated with these effects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306813	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306813	aging
Experimental gerontology	Late life maintenance and enhancement of functional exercise capacity in low and high responding rats after low intensity treadmill training.	HRT rats retained the ability to improve exercise capacity into late life and that ability was associated with inherent and adaptive changes in antioxidant enzyme levels and markers of and mitochondrial quality related to healthspan benefits in aging. Moreover, low intensity exercise prevented the age-associated decline in functional exercise capacity in LRT rats.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306740	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306740	aging
Food and chemical toxicology : an international journal published for the British Industrial Biological Research Association	Aronia melanocarpa (Michx.) Elliot fruit juice reveals neuroprotective effect and improves cognitive and locomotor functions of aged rats.	The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of polyphenol-rich Aronia melanocarpa (Michx.) Elliot juice (AMJ) on learning ability and memory, and brain morphology of aged rats. A model of healthy male Wistar rats (24 months of age) divided in 2 groups was used: AMJ group supplemented orally with AMJ (10 mL/kg for 105 days) and old control (CO) group without supplementation. Activity cage test showed that AMJ supplemented rats increased the number of vertical movements compared with old controls (p < 0.05). In active avoidance test, supplemented rats increased the number of avoidances on 3rd, 4th and 5th days of learning session, compared with the respective day of old controls (p < 0.05). AMJ supplementation did not affect the mean neuronal number in the dentate gyrus but significantly increased the density of nerve fibers in the perforant path of the hippocampus (p < 0.05). AMJ supplementation increased acetylcholinesterase activity in hippocampus, which is a marker of improved functional activity of the cholinergic neurons. These results indicate that AMJ induced ameliorating changes in the ability of old rats to learn tasks and improved their locomotor functions. AMJ showed a neuroprotective effect by increasing the density of nerve fibers in the hippocampal perforant pathway.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31306687	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306687	aging
Nano letters	Long-term Chemical Aging of Hybrid Halide Perovskites.	Since the power conversion efficiency (PCE) of hybrid halide perovskite solar cells (PSCs) could exceed 24%, extensive research has been focused on improving their long-term stability for commercialization in the near future. In a previous study, we reported that the addition of a certain amount of ionized iodide (triiodide: I3-) ions during the perovskite film formation significantly improved the efficiency of PSCs by reducing deep-level defects in the perovskite layer. Understanding the relationship between the concentration of these defects and the long-term chemical aging of PSCs is important not only for obtaining fundamental insight into the perovskite materials, but also for studying the long-term chemical stability of PSCs. Herein we aim to identify the origin of the natural decay in PCE during long-term chemical aging in the dark of PSCs based on formamidinium lead triiodide, by comparing the performance of control and low-defect (LD) devices. After aging for 200 days, the change in PCE of the LD devices (1.3%) was found to be half that of the control devices (2.6%). We investigated this difference using grazing incidence wide-angle X-ray scattering, deep-level transient spectroscopy, scanning photoemission microscopy, and X-ray photo emission spectroscopy. The addition of I3- was found to reduce the amounts of hydroxide and Ox in the halide perovskites (HPs), affecting the migration of defects and the structural transformation of the HPs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306574	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306574	aging
PloS one	The influence of personality on memory self-report among black and white older adults.	Self-reported memory problems are often the first indicator of cognitive decline; however, they are inconsistently associated with objective memory performance and are known to be influenced by individual factors, such as personality. The current study examined the relationships between personality traits and self-reported memory problems in cognitively intact older adults, and whether these associations differ across Black and White older adults. Data were collected annually via in-person comprehensive medical and neuropsychological examinations as part of the Einstein Aging Study. Community-dwelling older adults in an urban, multi-ethnic area of New York City were interviewed. The current study included a total of 425 older adults (Mage = 76.68, SD = 4.72, 62.59% female; 72.00% White). Multilevel modeling tested the associations of neuroticism, conscientiousness, extraversion, openness, and agreeableness with self-reported memory problems. Results showed that neuroticism was positively related to frequency of memory problems and perceived ten-year memory decline only when other personality traits were not accounted for. Extraversion was negatively related to frequency of memory problems and perceived ten-year decline for both White and Black participants. However, conscientiousness was negatively related to perceived ten-year decline for Black participants only. Our findings highlight the importance of examining the association of all five personality traits with self-reported memory problems, as well as examining whether these associations differ for participants from different race/ethnicities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306444	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306444	aging
Journal of cardiovascular pharmacology	Erythropoietin improves cardiovascular function in adult rats after acute hemorrhage.	Erythropoietin (EPO) has been linked to cardioprotective effects. However, its effects during the aging process are little known. We investigated the effect of EPO administration on hemodynamic parameters, cardiac function, oxidative damage, and EPO receptor (EPOR) expression pattern in hypovolemic state. EPO was administered (1000 IU/kg/3 days) and then acute hemorrhage (20% blood loss) was induced in young and adult rats. There was no difference in plasmatic EPO in either age group. Hemodynamic basal condition was similar, without alterations in renal function and hematocrit, in both age groups. After bleeding, both EPO treated age groups had increased blood pressure at the end of the experimental protocol, being greater in adult animals. EPO attenuated the tachycardic effect. Ejection fraction and fractional shortening were higher in adult EPO treated rats subjected to hemorrhage. In the left ventricle, young and adult EPO treated rats subjected to bleeding showed an increased EPOR expression. A different EPOR expression pattern was observed in the adult right atrial tissue, compared to young animals. EPO treatment decreased oxidative damage to lipids in both age groups. EPO treatment prior to acute hemorrhage improves cardiovascular function during the aging process which is mediated by different EPOR pattern expression in heart tissue.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306373	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306373	aging
The Journal of nursing administration	Delineation of the Nursing Supervisor Role: A Pilot Study.	Nurse supervisors prioritized responding to emergencies above all other responsibilities. This study should be replicated in a nationwide sample of nurse supervisors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306298	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306298	aging
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Association of Folate Metabolites and Mitochondrial Function in Peripheral Blood Cells in Alzheimer's Disease: A Matched Case-Control Study.	In conclusion, mitochondrial function in peripheral blood cells could be associated with risk of AD independent of multiple covariates. AD patients with a folate deficiency or hyperhomocysteinemia had low mitochondrial function in peripheral blood cells. However, further randomized controlled trials are need to determine a causal effect.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306134	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306134	aging
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Association of Asymmetrical White Matter Hyperintensities and Apolipoprotein E4 on Cognitive Impairment.	Leftward asymmetry of WMH may be more pathological in nature, compared to symmetrical WMH. Furthermore, the detrimental effects of WMH asymmetry was more relevant in APOE4-negative cognitive impairment, compared to APOE4-positive which may be driven primarily by AD pathology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306121	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306121	aging
Journal of Alzheimer's disease : JAD	Measures of Adiposity and Alzheimer's Disease-Related MRI Markers: The Northern Manhattan Study.	Greater BMI and WC were related to cortical thinning within and outside the AD-signature region, suggesting a global effect not specific to AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31306120	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306120	aging
Aging	Circular RNAs in leukemia.	In pace with the development of gene sequencing technology and transcriptome research, it has been found that 70 to 90% of the human genome is transcribed into RNAs, while only 2% of RNAs encode proteins. This implies that non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) may exert vital biological functions and a full analysis of non-coding transcriptomes is needed. Over the past decade, the advance in high-throughput sequencing and transcriptome profiling has enabled the identification of circular RNAs (circRNAs) involved in many biological processes and the occurrence and development of diseases. Accumulating evidence has revealed that circRNAs may serve as new biomarkers for diagnosis as well as provide promising therapeutic approaches and novel drug screening strategies for leukemia. A comprehensive understanding of circRNAs in leukemia is a prerequisite for the development of clinical translational research. In this review, we will discuss the general information of circRNAs and focus on the current advances in understanding the association between dysregulated circRNAs and leukemia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306100	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306100	aging
Aging	Genome-wide association and evolutionary analyses reveal the formation of swine facial wrinkles in Chinese Erhualian pigs.	Wrinkles are uneven concave-convex folds, ridges or creases in skin. Facial wrinkles appear in head, typically increasing along with aging. However in several Chinese indigenous pigs, such as Erhualian pigs, rich facial wrinkles have been generated during the growth stages as one of their breed characteristics. To investigate the genetic basis underlying the development of swine facial wrinkles, we estimated the folding extent of facial wrinkles in a herd of Erhualian pigs (n=332), and then conducted genome-wide association studies and multi-trait meta-analysis for facial wrinkles using 60K porcine chips. We found that facial wrinkles had high heritability estimates of ~0.7 in Erhualian pigs. Notably, only one genome-wide significant QTL was detected at 34.8 Mb on porcine chromosome 7. The most significant SNP rs80983858 located at the 3255-bp downstream of candidate gene 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31306098	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31306098	aging
JAMA neurology	Prevalence of Biologically vs Clinically Defined Alzheimer Spectrum Entities Using the National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association Research Framework.	Results of this study suggest that biologically defined Alzheimer disease is more prevalent than clinically defined probable Alzheimer disease at any age and is 3 times more prevalent at age 85 years among both women and men. This difference is mostly driven by asymptomatic individuals with biological Alzheimer disease. These findings illustrate the magnitude of the consequences on public health that potentially exist by intervening with disease-specific treatments to prevent symptom onset.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305929	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305929	aging
JAMA neurology	Association of Extracellular Vesicle Biomarkers With Alzheimer Disease in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging.	We validated nEV biomarker candidates and further demonstrated that their preclinical longitudinal trajectories can predict AD diagnosis. These findings motivate further development of nEV biomarkers toward a clinical blood test for AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305918	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305918	aging
Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE	Lexical Decision Task for Studying Written Word Recognition in Adults with and without Dementia or Mild Cognitive Impairment.	Older adults are slower at recognizing visual objects than younger adults. The same is true for recognizing that a letter string is a real word. People with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) demonstrate even longer responses in written word recognition than elderly controls. Despite the general tendency towards slower recognition in aging and neurocognitive disorders, certain characteristics of words influence word recognition speed regardless of age or neuropathology (e.g., a word's frequency of use). We present here a protocol for examining the influence of lexical characteristics on word recognition response times in a simple lexical decision experiment administered to younger and older adults and people with MCI or AD. In this experiment, participants are asked to decide as quickly and accurately as possible whether a given letter string is an actual word or not. We also describe mixed-effects models and principal components analysis that can be used to detect the influence of different types of lexical variables or individual characteristics of participants on word recognition speed.	2019	eng	Video-Audio Media	United States	31305521	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305521	aging
Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE	SA-β-Galactosidase-Based Screening Assay for the Identification of Senotherapeutic Drugs.	Cell senescence is one of the hallmarks of aging known to negatively influence a healthy lifespan. Drugs able to kill senescent cells specifically in cell culture, termed senolytics, can reduce the senescent cell burden in vivo and extend healthspan. Multiple classes of senolytics have been identified to date including HSP90 inhibitors, Bcl-2 family inhibitors, piperlongumine, a FOXO4 inhibitory peptide and the combination of Dasatinib/Quercetin. Detection of SA-β-Gal at an increased lysosomal pH is one of the best characterized markers for the detection of senescent cells. Live cell measurements of senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-Gal) activity using the fluorescent substrate C12FDG in combination with the determination of the total cell number using a DNA intercalating Hoechst dye opens the possibility to screen for senotherapeutic drugs that either reduce overall SA-β-Gal activity by killing of senescent cells (senolytics) or by suppressing SA-β-Gal and other phenotypes of senescent cells (senomorphics). Use of a high content fluorescent image acquisition and analysis platform allows for the rapid, high throughput screening of drug libraries for effects on SA-β-Gal, cell morphology and cell number.	2019	eng	Video-Audio Media	United States	31305507	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305507	aging
Medicine	Dissociation between the growing opioid demands and drug policy directions among the U.S. older adults with degenerative joint diseases.	We aim to examine temporal trends of orthopedic operations and opioid-related hospital stays among seniors in the nation and states of Oregon and Washington where marijuana legalization was accepted earlier than any others.As aging society advances in the United States (U.S.), orthopedic operations and opioid-related hospital stays among seniors increase in the nation.A serial cross-sectional cohort study using the healthcare cost and utilization project fast stats from 2006 through 2015 measured annual rate per 100,000 populations of orthopedic operations by age groups (45-64 vs 65 and older) as well as annual rate per 100,000 populations of opioid-related hospital stays among 65 and older in the nation, Oregon and Washington states from 2008 through 2017. Orthopedic operations (knee arthroplasty, total or partial hip replacement, spinal fusion or laminectomy) and opioid-related hospital stays were measured. The compound annual growth rate (CAGR) was used to quantify temporal trends of orthopedic operations by age groups as well as opioid-related hospital stays and was tested by Rao-Scott correction of χ for categorical variables.The CAGR (4.06%) of orthopedic operations among age 65 and older increased (P < .001) unlike the unchanged rate among age 45 to 64. The CAGRs of opioid-related hospital stays among age 65 and older were upward trends among seniors in general (6.79%) and in Oregon (10.32%) and Washington (15.48%) in particular (all P < .001).Orthopedic operations and opioid-related hospital stays among seniors increased over time in the U.S. Marijuana legalization might have played a role of gateway drug to opioid among seniors.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305399	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305399	aging
AIDS (London, England)	Frailty in medically complex individuals with chronic HIV.	Neuropsychiatric illness increased odds of being frail on a predominantly physical/motoric measure, but only when symptomatic. Lack of association with asymptomatic impairment may reflect the importance of functional limitation to frailty, or possibly a unique resilience phenotype. Understanding why sex and symptomatic neuropsychiatric illness are associated with frailty will be important in managing HIV-associated morbidity in aging populations.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305330	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305330	aging
Alzheimer disease and associated disorders	Association of TDP-43 Pathology With Domain-specific Literacy in Older Persons.	TDP-43 pathology is associated with lower health and financial literacy in old age, above and beyond AD pathology.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305319	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305319	aging
Aging	Age-associated changes of the intrinsic nervous system in relation with interstitial cells in the pre-weaning goat rumen.	In this study, we investigated the neural changes and their relationships with interstitial cells (ICs) in the rumen of pre-weaning goats by transmission electron microscopy, western blot and immunofluorescence (antibody: general neuronal marker-Protein Gene Product (PGP9.5)/ IC marker-vimentin). The immunofluorescence results showed that PGP9.5-positive reaction was widely distributed in neuronal soma (NS) and nerve fibre (NF). The NSs were observed in the ganglia of the myenteric plexus (MP) but not in the submucosal plexus. The mean optical density (MOD) of the whole of PGP9.5-positive nerves and the protein expression level of PGP.5 in the rumen wall both decreased significantly with age. However an obvious increase MOD of PGP.5-positive NFs within the rumen epithelium were observed. In the MP, the nerves and ICs were interwoven to form two complex networks that gradually tightened with age. Furthermore, NSs and nerve trunks were surrounded by a ring-boundary layer consisting of several ICs that became physically closer with aging. Moreover, ICs were located nearby NFs within the ML, forming connections between ICs, smooth muscle cells and axons. This study describes the pattern of neural distribution and its association with ICs in the developing rumen which shed light on the postpartum development of ruminants.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305258	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305258	aging
Clinical gerontologist	Caring for Unbefriended Older Adults and Adult Orphans: A Clinician Survey.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31305222	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305222	aging
Aging cell	Enhanced nuclear protein export in premature aging and rescue of the progeria phenotype by modulation of CRM1 activity.	The study of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) has provided important clues to decipher mechanisms underlying aging. Progerin, a mutant lamin A, disrupts nuclear envelope structure/function, with further impairment of multiple processes that culminate in senescence. Here, we demonstrate that the nuclear protein export pathway is exacerbated in HGPS, due to progerin-driven overexpression of CRM1, thereby disturbing nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of CRM1-target proteins. Enhanced nuclear export is central in HGPS, since pharmacological inhibition of CRM1 alleviates all aging hallmarks analyzed, including senescent cellular morphology, lamin B1 downregulation, loss of heterochromatin, nuclear morphology defects, and expanded nucleoli. Exogenous overexpression of CRM1 on the other hand recapitulates the HGPS cellular phenotype in normal fibroblasts. CRM1 levels/activity increases with age in fibroblasts from healthy donors, indicating that altered nuclear export is a common hallmark of pathological and physiological aging. Collectively, our findings provide novel insights into HGPS pathophysiology, identifying CRM1 as potential therapeutic target in HGPS.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31305018	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31305018	aging
The journals of gerontology. Series A, Biological sciences and medical sciences	Homocysteine and C-reactive protein levels are associated with frailty in older Spaniards: The Toledo Study for Healthy Aging.	High-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and homocysteine (Hcy) are inflammation markers but are also related to cardiovascular diseases, disability or higher risk of death. Although inflammation is considered to be associated with frailty, data regarding the association between hsCRP or Hcy and frailty are controversial or scarce, especially with respect to their association with pre-frailty. Thus, our objective was to study the association of hsCRP and Hcy with pre-frailty and frailty in 1211 Spanish men and women aged 65-98 years from the Toledo Study for Healthy Aging (TSHA) cohort, classified according to Fried's criteria. Hcy was independently associated with frailty (OR=1.06; 95% CI, 1.01 - 1.12), while hsCRP was independently associated with both pre-frailty (OR=1.03; 95% CI, 1.01 - 1.06) and frailty (OR=1.07; 95% CI, 1.02 - 1.12). Furthermore, both markers were positively correlated with the number of Fried's criteria that were met and were independently associated with the criteria of exhaustion (Hcy: OR=1.03, 95% CI, 1.00 - 1.06), weakness (hsCRP: OR=1.03, 95% CI, 1.01 - 1.05) and low physical activity (hsCRP: OR=1.04, 95% CI, 1.02 - 1.06). Thus, our results highlight the importance of inflammation in age-related physical decline and, in particular, its association with fatigue, low strength and decreased physical activity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304964	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304964	aging
Cellular and molecular biology (Noisy-le-Grand, France)	Protective effect of sakuranetin in brain cells of dementia model rats.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a high-incidence neurodegenerative disease with complex and diverse pathogenesis. With aging of the population and continuous improvement of living standards, the incidence of AD is on the increase. Therefore, there is need to develop more effective AD drugs in order to improve the quality of life of the elderly. Sakuranetin (SAK) is a dihydroflavonoid compound extracted from plants. It has many physiological properties. In this study, the effect of SAK on spatial discrimination in a rat model of cognitive dysfunction exposed to D-galactose was investigated with respect to its effect on malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) levels, and on the expressions of interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and nuclear factor-κB inhibitory factor-α (IκBα) in hippocampus of rats. The results obtained suggest that SAK may exert protective effects on brain cells through anti-oxidation mechanism. Moreover, the improvement in learning and memory impairment by SAK may also be related to the inhibition of inflammatory mediators in brain tissue. These findings provide scientific evidence that can be exploited for more effective treatment of Alzheimer's disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31304907	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304907	aging
The Clinical neuropsychologist	Prospective memory partially mediates the association between aging and everyday functioning.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304859	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304859	aging
Expert opinion on drug safety	Metabolic complications affecting adipose tissue, lipid and glucose metabolism associated with HIV antiretroviral treatment.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304808	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304808	aging
Scandinavian cardiovascular journal : SCJ	30-day mortality in frail patients undergoing cardiac surgery: The results of the 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31304801	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304801	aging
ACS applied materials & interfaces	Highly improved quasi-two-dimensional oxide transistors via non-centrosymmetric nitrogen dioxide treatment: towards extremely low-process temperature and operant self-aligned coplanar structure.	Rapid degradations are typically encountered in low-temperature processed oxide thin-film transistors (TFTs) with a high indium composition and 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304734	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304734	aging
Macromolecular rapid communications	Addition Polyalkylnorbornenes: A Promising New Class of Si-Free Membrane Materials for Hydrocarbons Separation.	Nanoporous glassy polymers are perspective materials for the fabrication of gas separation membranes, especially for the application of gaseous hydrocarbon separation. However, the drawback of such materials is the pronounced physical aging resulting in the dramatic drop of gas transport properties due to relaxation of high-free-volume fraction in time. Herein, a novel and readily available group of such glassy polymers is reported based on 5-alkylnorbornenes. These polymers are easily synthesized from dicyclopentadiene and α-olefins by Diels-Alder reaction and vinyl (addition) polymerization of the formed cycloadducts in the presence of ([(η	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31304660	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304660	aging
Journal of neuroscience research	The effects of age and sex on the detection of pure tones by adult CBA/CaJ mice (Mus musculus).	Age-related hearing loss (ARHL) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a gradual decrease in hearing sensitivity. Previous electrophysiological and behavioral studies have demonstrated that the CBA/CaJ mouse strain is an appropriate model for the late-onset hearing loss found in humans. However, few studies have characterized hearing in these mice behaviorally using longitudinal methodologies. The goal of this research was to utilize a longitudinal design and operant conditioning procedures with positive reinforcement to construct audiograms and temporal integration functions in aging CBA/CaJ mice. In the first experiment, thresholds were collected for 8, 16, 24, 42, and 64 kHz pure tones in 30 male and 35 female CBA/CaJ mice. Similar to humans, mice had higher thresholds for high frequency tones than for low frequency pure tones across the lifespan. Female mice had better hearing acuity than males after 645 days of age. In the second experiment, temporal integration functions were constructed for 18 male and 18 female mice for 16 and 64 kHz tones varying in duration. Mice showed an increase in thresholds for tones shorter than 200 ms, reaching peak performance at shorter durations than other rodent species. Overall, CBA/CaJ mice experience ARHL for pure tones of different frequencies and durations, making them a good model for studies on hearing loss. These findings highlight the importance of using a wide range of stimuli and a longitudinal design when comparing presbycusis across different species.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304616	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304616	aging
Drugs & aging	Management of Secondary Hyperparathyroidism in Chronic Kidney Disease: A Focus on the Elderly.	Secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) is a major complication of chronic kidney disease (CKD), responsible for skeletal and vascular damage with increased risk of bone fractures, cardiovascular events, and mortality. However, the optimal serum parathormone (PTH) levels for improving clinical outcomes remain uncertain. Treatment of SHPT is based on nutritional therapy, phosphate binders, vitamin D, and calcimimetics, but none of these interventions has ever been tested against placebo in randomized controlled trials. Treatment of SHPT in the elderly should consider the many peculiarities of aging in terms of physiopathology, quality of life, symptoms, subjective perception of disease, drug load, and the modifying effect of treatment on disease-related outcomes. Unfortunately, peculiarities of SHPT among elderly CKD patients are mainly unexplored. The present review aims to provide a reasonable merging of evidence regarding the management of SHPT in CKD, with more actual concepts on how to care for older patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	New Zealand	31304565	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304565	aging
Food science of animal resources	Combined Effect of Aging and Irradiation on Physicochemical Quality of Pork Shoulder.	The effect of combined electron-beam irradiation and aging temperature of pork on microbiological and physicochemical properties was investigated. The samples from pork shoulder were irradiated with 0 or 2 kGy, vacuum-packaged, and assigned randomly to an aging temperature (2°C, 10°C, or 25°C) during 8 d. On 4 d of aging at 25°C, total aerobic bacteria of non-irradiated ones reached 7 Log CFU/g which is no salable levels. Shear force values of irradiated meat after aging for 2 and 4 d at 25°C was lower than those aged at 2°C. Irradiated samples at 2°C had lower cooking loss after 2 and 8 d of aging, compared with other aging temperatures. Irradiation did not accelerate 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) value when aged up to 4 d. Irradiated samples aged at 10°C and 25°C for 8 d scored significantly higher TBARS values. With an increased aging period, a* and b* in irradiated samples at 2°C slightly increased, but irradiation caused negligible changes in meat color. The highest contents of a desirable nucleotide flavor compounds (inosine-5-phosphate) were observed in pork at 2°C when aged for 4 and 8 d, while the lowest contents were observed at 25°C. Aging in irradiated pork for 8 d at 2°C resulted in optimal condition with improved meat quality and minimal microbiologically negative defect.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31304478	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304478	aging
Food science of animal resources	Volatile Flavor Components as a Function of Electrical Stimulation and Chiller Aging for 	The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of an early post-mortem low voltage electrical stimulation (ES) to localized part of carcasses [	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31304475	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304475	aging
Food science of animal resources	Changes in Sensory Compounds during Dry Aging of Pork Cuts.	The effects of dry-aging on changes in taste compounds and electronic taste sensing traits of pork were investigated. Ten pork belly and shoulder blade cuts were divided into wet-aging and dry-aging treatments and stored for 21 days at 2°C. The contents of nucleotides and free amino acids, and electronic tongue analysis were investigated at different aging periods (1, 7, 14, and 21 days). The contents of inosine and hypoxanthine of dry-aged pork cuts increased more rapidly, and they were significantly (p<0.05) higher than wet-aged pork cuts. Total free amino acids of dry-aged pork cuts were also significantly (p<0.05) higher than those of wet-aged pork cuts after 21 days of aging. Consequently, umami intensity of dry-aged pork cuts increased more rapidly and the values were significantly (p<0.05) higher than those of wet-aged pork during 21 days of aging. Results suggested that the better palatability of dry-aged pork cuts might be due to higher umami intensity in relation to higher contents of inosine, hypoxanthine, and free amino acids.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31304467	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304467	aging
Open forum infectious diseases	Cross-Sectional and Cumulative Longitudinal Central Nervous System Penetration Effectiveness Scores Are Not Associated With Neurocognitive Impairment in a Well Treated Aging Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Positive Population in Switzerland.	In this large cohort of aviremic PWH, we observed no association between NCI, whether HIV-associated or related to other factors, and CPE score, whether cross-sectional or cumulative.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31304188	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31304188	aging
Computational and structural biotechnology journal	FOXO3 on the Road to Longevity: Lessons From SNPs and Chromatin Hubs.	Health span is driven by a precise interplay between genes and the environment. Cell response to environmental cues is mediated by signaling cascades and genetic variants that affect gene expression by regulating chromatin plasticity. Indeed, they can promote the interaction of promoters with regulatory elements by forming active chromatin hubs. 	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31303978	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303978	aging
BMC nursing	'Thinking outside the box': advanced geriatric nursing in primary health care in Scandinavia.	The results indicate that it is feasible to implement the GNP role in primary health care in Scandinavia. Notwithstanding, there are factors influencing implementation of the GNP role that should be considered.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303862	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303862	aging
The Malaysian journal of medical sciences : MJMS	Prevalence of Poor Mental Health and Cognitive Status among Middle-Aged Adults and Its Predictors in Relation to Polyphenols Intake.	Early detection of poor mental health and cognitive is crucial to prevent Alzheimer's disease in old age.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Malaysia	31303852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303852	aging
Saudi journal of biological sciences	Ameliorating role of whey syrup against ageing-related damage of myocardial muscle of Wistar Albino rats.	Age-ing is involved in gradual breakdown of biological structure and function of body organs. The heart represents the main organ responsible for pumping the main issues of life which involving oxygen, nutrients and bioactive molecules necessary for maintaining the body functions. The present study has been conducted to assess the anti-aging properties of whey syrup collected from fermented milk in 4, 18 and 30-months-old rats. The histopathological and histochemical changes of carbohydrates and proteins were investigated. Immunohistochemical expression of smooth muscle actin and P53 was performed to assess the function of cardiomyocytes. Furthermore, Annexin v and biochemical changes of different cardio-biomarkers were carried out to evaluate the effects of aging. The present result of 30 months-old rats revealed myocardial infarction assessed by widening of myocardial fibers, diffused with numerous blood capillaries and dense leukocytic infiltration. The assessed biochemical markers confirmed myocardial damage. Whey supplementation improved the myocardial structure, but less improvement was observed for the 30-months-old rats. The author recommended supplementation with whey is beneficial in giving a body the demand for amino acids and minerals essential for supporting the myocardium and also provides protection against age-ing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Saudi Arabia	31303824	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303824	aging
Cell stem cell	Remodeling of Bone Marrow Hematopoietic Stem Cell Niches Promotes Myeloid Cell Expansion during Premature or Physiological Aging.	Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) residing in the bone marrow (BM) accumulate during aging but are functionally impaired. However, the role of HSC-intrinsic and -extrinsic aging mechanisms remains debated. Megakaryocytes promote quiescence of neighboring HSCs. Nonetheless, whether megakaryocyte-HSC interactions change during pathological/natural aging is unclear. Premature aging in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome recapitulates physiological aging features, but whether these arise from altered stem or niche cells is unknown. Here, we show that the BM microenvironment promotes myelopoiesis in premature/physiological aging. During physiological aging, HSC-supporting niches decrease near bone but expand further from bone. Increased BM noradrenergic innervation promotes β	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303548	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303548	aging
Trends in cognitive sciences	At the Heart of Cognitive Functioning in Aging.	Several neural and non-neural factors contribute to individual differences in cognitive performance. Here we outline a sequence of vascular events where excessive transfer of arterial-pressure pulsatility damages hippocampal capillaries. We argue that the vascular alterations decrease the ability to sustain neural activity and thereby contribute to episodic-memory impairment in aging.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303538	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303538	aging
Current biology : CB	Neuronal XBP-1 Activates Intestinal Lysosomes to Improve Proteostasis in C. elegans.	The unfolded protein response of the endoplasmic reticulum (UPR	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303493	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303493	aging
Current biology : CB	Loss of Function of Phosphodiesterase 11A4 Shows that Recent and Remote Long-Term Memories Can Be Uncoupled.	Systems consolidation is a process by which memories initially require the hippocampus for recent long-term memory (LTM) but then become increasingly independent of the hippocampus and more dependent on the cortex for remote LTM. Here, we study the role of phosphodiesterase 11A4 (PDE11A4) in systems consolidation. PDE11A4, which degrades cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), is preferentially expressed in neurons of CA1, the subiculum, and the adjacently connected amygdalohippocampal region. In male and female mice, deletion of PDE11A enhances remote LTM for social odor recognition and social transmission of food preference (STFP) despite eliminating or silencing recent LTM for those same social events. Measurement of a surrogate marker of neuronal activation (i.e., Arc mRNA) suggests the recent LTM deficits observed in Pde11 knockout mice correspond with decreased activation of ventral CA1 relative to wild-type littermates. In contrast, the enhanced remote LTM observed in Pde11a knockout mice corresponds with increased activation and altered functional connectivity of anterior cingulate cortex, frontal association cortex, parasubiculum, and the superficial layer of medial entorhinal cortex. The apparent increased neural activation observed in prefrontal cortex of Pde11a knockout mice during remote LTM retrieval may be related to an upregulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits NR1 and NR2A. Viral restoration of PDE11A4 to vCA1 alone is sufficient to rescue both the LTM phenotypes and upregulation of NR1 exhibited by Pde11a knockout mice. Together, our findings suggest remote LTM can be decoupled from recent LTM, which may have relevance for cognitive deficits associated with aging, temporal lobe epilepsy, or transient global amnesia.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303492	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303492	aging
Immunity	Plasma Cells Are Obligate Effectors of Enhanced Myelopoiesis in Aging Bone Marrow.	Aging results in increased myelopoiesis, which is linked to the increased incidence of myeloid leukemias and production of myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Here, we examined the contribution of plasma cells (PCs) to age-related increases in myelopoiesis, as PCs exhibit immune regulatory function and sequester in bone marrow (BM). PC number was increased in old BM, and they exhibited high expression of genes encoding inflammatory cytokines and pathogen sensors. Antibody-mediated depletion of PCs from old mice reduced the number of myeloid-biased hematopoietic stem cells and mature myeloid cells to levels in young animals, but lymphopoiesis was not rejuvenated, indicating that redundant mechanisms inhibit that process. PCs also regulated the production of inflammatory factors from BM stromal cells, and disruption of the PC-stromal cell circuitry with inhibitors of the cytokines IL-1 and TNF-α attenuated myelopoiesis in old mice. Thus, the age-related increase in myelopoiesis is driven by an inflammatory network orchestrated by PCs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303400	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303400	aging
Journal of clinical neuroscience : official journal of the Neurosurgical Society of Australasia	The effects of mindfulness and health education programs on the emotional state and cognitive function of elderly individuals with mild cognitive impairment: A randomized controlled trial.	This study aimed to determine the efficacy of mindfulness practice on emotional state and cognitive function of community-living elderly with mild cognitive impairment. A randomized controlled trial was conducted with the experimental group undergoing a Mindfulness Awareness Program (MAP) and an active control group undergoing a Health Education Program (HEP) over a nine month period. Sessions were conducted weekly for the first three months and monthly for the remaining six months. Self-reported questionnaires in English and Chinese were administered through face-to-face interviews to collect data at baseline, three months and nine months. Descriptive statistics and analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) were used to analyse data. Fifty-five elderly participants aged sixty and above, were randomized to MAP (N = 28) and HEP (N = 27) programs. Participants in both intervention arms experienced decreases in depressive and anxiety symptoms over the nine-month period. A significant improvement occurred in the HEP group in depression scores at three months and anxiety scores at both three and nine months. There were no statistically significant changes on cognitive function in both groups over the nine-month period. Both the MAP and HEP can benefit the emotional states of community-living elderly with mild cognitive impairment. Our study supports the usefulness of group-based HEP as a low cost intervention for promoting active aging and psychological health in a community setting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Scotland	31303397	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303397	aging
The lancet. Diabetes & endocrinology	2 years of calorie restriction and cardiometabolic risk (CALERIE): exploratory outcomes of a multicentre, phase 2, randomised controlled trial.	National Institute on Aging and National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303390	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303390	aging
Journal of cardiology	Use of speckle tracking to assess heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.	Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) currently represents approximately 50% of heart failure (HF) cases in the USA and is increasingly recognized as a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Recent data suggest that the prevalence of HFpEF relative to HF with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) is increasing at a rate of 1% per year. With an aging population and increasing risk factors such as hypertension, obesity, and diabetes mellitus, HFpEF will soon be the most prevalent HF phenotype. Two-dimensional speckle-tracking echocardiography (STE) has been used to diagnose HFpEF specifically by focusing on the longitudinal systolic function of the left ventricle (LV). Yet there are many patients with HFpEF in whom there are no differences in LV global longitudinal systolic strain, but there are changes in left atrial function and structure. There are several proposed pathophysiological mechanisms for HFpEF such as endothelial dysfunction, interactions among proteins, signaling pathways, and myocardial bioenergetics. Yet only one specific therapy, mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist, spironolactone, is recommended as a treatment for patients with HFpEF. However, spironolactone does not address many of the pathophysiologic changes that occur in HFpEF, thus new novel therapeutic agents are needed. With the limited available therapies, clinicians should use STE to assess for the presence of this syndrome in their patients to provide effective diagnosis and management.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31303358	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303358	aging
Journal of autoimmunity	Cellular aging over 13 years associated with incident antinuclear antibody positivity in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging.	Age-associated increases in antinuclear antibodies (ANA) in the general population are commonly noted but the mechanisms underlying this observation are unclear. This study aims to evaluate whether shorter peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) telomere length, a marker of more advanced biological age, is associated with ANA positivity prevalence and incidence in middle and older aged autoimmune disease-free individuals from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA). Telomere length was measured by Southern Blot and categorized into tertiles. ANA was measured in a 1:80 and a 1:160 dilution of sera by immunofluorescence using HEp-2 cells (seropositive = 3 or 4). Multiple logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals of ANA positivity comparing the shorter tertiles of telomere length to the longest tertile for two cross-sectional points in time and then longitudinally to assess the association between shorter telomere length and incident ANA positivity. Cross-sectional analyses were adjusted for sex, race and BMI (N = 368 baseline, N = 370 follow-up) and longitudinal analyses were adjusted for sex, race, BMI and time between baseline and follow-up (N = 246). No statistically significant cross-sectional associations were observed at baseline or follow-up. Among those where ANA negative at baseline, individuals with shorter telomeres were more likely to be ANA positive at follow-up, an average 13 years later. Individuals with short telomeres at both time periods were more likely to be ANA positive. Findings suggest that ANA positivity in the general population may be indicative of immune dysfunction resulting from advanced cellular aging processes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303354	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303354	aging
HIV research & clinical practice	Quality of life of older women living with HIV: comparative assessment of physical and mental health-related markers using a large Canadian Sexual and Reproductive Health Cohort Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31303141	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303141	aging
Research on aging	Dimensions of Religious Involvement Represent Positive Pathways in Cognitive Aging.	Older Black and Hispanic adults report more religious involvement, and religious involvement has been linked to better cognition. This study examined which aspects of religious involvement are associated with better longitudinal episodic memory and whether religious involvement offsets racial and ethnic inequalities in episodic memory. Using Health and Retirement Study data (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31303123	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31303123	aging
Aging clinical and experimental research	Arterial stiffness and multiple organ damage: a longitudinal study in population.	Arterial stiffness, a proxy of arterial aging that can be measured clinically as PWV, is an integrated predictive marker of multiple age-associated organ damage recognized as clinical diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31302897	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302897	aging
Biogerontology	Age-associated liver alterations in wild populations of Austrolebias minuano, a short-lived Neotropical annual killifish.	Aging processes have become an attractive field for researchers and annual fish have been used as biological models. However, the study on the changes in age-associated markers during the normal aging in wild populations of annual fish remains open. Austrolebias is a genus of Neotropical annual killifishes, distributed mainly in ephemeral pools across grassland floodplains of temperate South America and represent an emerging biological model for aging research, but studies investigating rapid aging and senescence in this genus of annual fish are almost non-existent. This study was undertaken to examine the changes in age-associated liver markers at the different developmental stages in wild populations of Austrolebias minuano. We demonstrate that A. minuano has a number of liver alterations of different severities throughout the life cycle, suggesting that these changes tend to increase with age. Our results revealed that > 70% of the analyzed livers presented alterations. Thus, our study should instigate new approaches on aging using Neotropical annual fish, and could be useful to improve the knowledge already provided by consecrated biological aging models as e.g. Nothobranchius killifishes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302822	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302822	aging
JAMA neurology	Association of Lifespan Cognitive Reserve Indicator With Dementia Risk in the Presence of Brain Pathologies.	High lifespan CR is associated with a reduction in dementia risk, even in the presence of high brain pathologies. Our findings highlight the importance of lifespan CR accumulation in dementia prevention.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302677	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302677	aging
International immunopharmacology	Combined ischemic and rapamycin preconditioning alleviated liver ischemia and reperfusion injury by restoring autophagy in aged mice.	Old livers are more damaged by hepatic ischemia and reperfusion (IR) injury than young livers. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of ischemic and rapamycin preconditioning on IR injury in old livers. Young (8-week-old) and aged (60-week-old) mice were subjected to IR or a sham control procedure. The aged mice were randomly divided into six groups: IR (CON), IR with ischemic preconditioning (IPC), IR with rapamycin preconditioning (RAPA), IR with combined ischemic and rapamycin preconditioning (IPC + RAPA), IR with 3-methyladenine (3-MA), IR with combined ischemic and rapamycin preconditioning with 3-MA pretreatment (IPC + RAPA+3-MA). Liver injury was evaluated 6 h after reperfusion. Hepatocellular autophagy induction was also analyzed by western blotting. The results revealed that aged mice had aggravated liver IR injury as compared to young mice. In aged mice following IR, IPC + RAPA but not IPC or RAPA alleviated liver injury, as evidenced by lower levels of serum ALT, improved preservation of liver architecture with lower Suzuki scores, and decreased caspase-3 activity compared with CON. In addition, western blot analysis revealed increased LC3B II but decreased p62 protein expression levels in the IPC + RAPA group, indicating that autophagic flux was restored by combined ischemic and rapamycin preconditioning. Furthermore, autophagy inhibition by the inhibitor 3-MA abrogated the protective role in the IPC + RAPA group, while no significant effects were observed in the CON group. In conclusions, our results demonstrated that combined ischemic and rapamycin preconditioning protected old livers against IR injury, which was likely attributed to restored autophagy activation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302450	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302450	aging
Environmental toxicology and pharmacology	Comparison of the reactivation rates of acetylcholinesterase modified by structurally different organophosphates using novel pyridinium oximes.	A novel panel of oximes were synthesized, which have displayed varying degree of reactivation ability towards different organophosphorus (OP) modified cholinesterases. In the present article, we report a comparative reactivation profile of a series of quaternary pyridinium-oximes for electric eel acetylcholinesterase (EEAChE) inhibited by the organophosphorus (OP) inhibitors methyl paraoxon (MePOX), ethyl paraoxon (POX; paraoxon) and diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP) that are distinguishable as dimethoxyphosphoryl, diethoxyphosphoryl and diisopropoxyphosphoryl AChE-OP-adducts. Most of the 59-oximes tested led to faster and more extensive reactivation of MePOX- and POX-inhibited EEAChE as compared to DFP-modified EEAChE. All were effective reactivators of three OP-modified EEAChE conjugates showing 18-21% reactivation for DFP-inhibited AChE and ≥45% reactivation for MePOX- and POX-inhibited EEAChE. Oximes 7 and 8 showed k	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302432	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302432	aging
Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie	Astragalus polysaccharide ameliorates lipopolysaccharide-induced cell injury in ATDC5 cells via miR-92a/KLF4 mediation.	The present study reveals that APS protects ATDC5 cells against LPS induced-injury by regulation of miR-92a/KLF4 axis and suppressing NF-κB and p38MAPK signal pathways.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31302422	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302422	aging
Redox biology	Short-term pharmacological activation of Nrf2 ameliorates vascular dysfunction in aged rats and in pathological human vasculature. A potential target for therapeutic intervention.	Oxidative stress contributes to endothelial dysfunction, a key step in cardiovascular disease development. Ageing-related vascular dysfunction involves defective antioxidant response. Nuclear factor erythroid 2-like-2 (Nrf2), orchestrates cellular response to oxidative stress. We evaluated the impact of Nrf2-activation on endothelium-dependent and H	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31302408	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302408	aging
Acta biomaterialia	Bio-instructive materials for musculoskeletal regeneration.	The prevalence and cost of disorders affecting the musculoskeletal system are predicted to rise significantly in the coming years due to the aging global population and the increase of associated risk factors. Despite being the second largest cause of disability, the clinical options for therapeutic intervention remain limited. The clinical translation of cell-based therapies for the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders faces many challenges including maintenance of cell survival in the harsh in vivo environment and the lack of control over regulating cell phenotype upon implantation. In order to address these challenges, the development of bio-instructive materials to modulate cell behavior has taken center stage as a strategy to increase the therapeutic potential of various cell populations. However, the determination of the necessary cues for a specific application and how these signals should be presented from a biomaterial remains elusive. This review highlights recent biochemical and physical strategies used to engineer bio-instructive materials for the repair of musculoskeletal tissues. There is a particular emphasis on emerging efforts such as the engineering of immunomodulatory and antibacterial materials, as well as the incorporation of these strategies into biofabrication and organ-on-a-chip approaches. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Disorders affecting the musculoskeletal system affect individuals across the lifespan and have a profound effect on mobility and quality of life. While small defects in many tissues can heal successfully, larger defects are often unable to heal or instead heal with inferior quality fibrous tissue and require clinical intervention. Cell-based therapies are a promising option for clinical translation, yet challenges related to maintaining cell survival and instructing cell phenotype upon implantation have limited the success of this approach. Bio-instructive materials provide an exciting opportunity to modulate cell behavior and enhance the efficacy of cell-based approaches for musculoskeletal repair. However, the identification of critical instructive cues and how to present these stimuli is a focus of intense investigation. This review highlights recent biochemical and physical strategies used to engineer bio-instructive materials for the repair of musculoskeletal tissues, while also considering exciting progress in the engineering of immunomodulatory and antibacterial materials.	2019	eng	Review	England	31302298	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302298	aging
NeuroImage	Default-mode network activation underlies accurate contextual processing of exclusive disjunctions in older but not younger adults.	Young adults proactively engage frontoparietal processing of contextual cues to preempt subsequent events. Rather than being preemptive, older adults engage these brain areas reactively upon event occurrences. Reactive frontoparietal processes in older adults, however, might be insufficient for complex contextual neural computations where utilities of contexts are not straightforward but dependent on a set of stimulus-response rules. Applying non-linear logic (XOR) rules in an fMRI experiment, we found higher default-mode network (DMN) activity critical for correctly responding to such contingency in older but not younger adults. Moreover, older individuals with higher proactive cue processing showed better performances with less DMN activity. Thus, DMN processing provides critical support when older adults are faced with complex contextual contingencies. These findings suggest an age-related change in the neurocomputational role of introspective processes in decision-making from young to older adulthood.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31302255	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302255	aging
Experimental gerontology	Age-related changes in histone modification in rat gastrocnemius muscle.	Changes in histone acetylation and methylation status with aging affect gene expression and phenotype in several tissues; however, age-related changes in histone modification in the skeletal muscle have not been elucidated yet. This study investigated age-related global changes in histone modification in rat gastrocnemius muscle. Male Wistar rats (n = 28) were assigned to one of four age groups (n = 7 per group) corresponding to different life stages: 3 months old (3-mo; young), 6 months old (adult), 12 months old (12-mo; middle-aged), and 24 months old (24-mo; old). The gastrocnemius muscle was removed and global histone modification (acetylation and tri-methylation) at K9 and K27 was evaluated by western blotting. Relative muscle mass decreased in the 12- and 24-mo rats accompanied with reduction in type IIb myosin heavy chain isoforms and Myh4 (MHC IIB) mRNA expression. Histone H3 acetylation decreased in an age-dependent manner, with lower levels in 12- and 24-mo groups than in the 3-mo group. K9 and K27 acetylation decreased with age. Although there was no significant change in K27 tri-methylation, K9 tri-methylation showed an age-dependent decline. Histone modification status (acetylation at K9 and K27 and tri-methylation at K9) was positively associated with relative gastrocnemius muscle weight, the percentage of type IIb myosin heavy chain isoform, myosin heavy chain type IIb protein expression, and the level of Myh4 mRNA. Thus, global histone H3 methylation and acetylation decrease with age, and the latter might be associated with age-related muscle atrophy of rat gastrocnemius muscle.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302168	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302168	aging
Journal of molecular and cellular cardiology	MicroRNA-1976 regulates degeneration of the sinoatrial node by targeting Ca	Sick sinus syndrome (SSS) is primarily a disease of the elderly, and age-dependent decrease in Ca	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31302118	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31302118	aging
The Journal of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery	Novel mechanisms for osteogenic differentiation of human aortic valve interstitial cells.	This study demonstrates the existence of a regulatory loop between metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 and human antigen R during osteogenic differentiation of valvular interstitial cells. Our findings provide novel mechanistic insights into a critical role of human antigen R in the aortic valve calcification progression and shed new light on RNA-binding protein-directed diagnostics and therapeutics in aortic valve calcification.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301902	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301902	aging
Revista espanola de geriatria y gerontologia	[Impact of hospital admission on centenarians admitted due to an acute illness. A description of a series of 165 cases and comparison with the literature].	Centenarians who required hospital admission showed a high rate of mortality, a significant deterioration in their functional capacity, and a decrease in their chances of going back to their own home at discharge.	2019	spa	Journal Article	Spain	31301820	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301820	aging
The Journal of surgical research	The Comprehensive Complication Index is Related to Frailty in Elderly Surgical Patients.	Frailty determined by CSHA-CFS is closely associated with the CCI, being a good predictor of postoperative complications in the elderly patient operated on by a major gastrointestinal procedure.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31301477	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301477	aging
Experimental gerontology	Sex-independent and dependent effects of older age on cycle-to-cycle variability of muscle activation during gait.	Associations between older age and higher muscle activation variability were generally sex-independent. A sex-dependency in GL activation variability may contribute to gait instability in aging females. Individual variabilities of muscle activation were not strongly related to stride time variability.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301384	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301384	aging
Clinical anatomy (New York, N.Y.)	The influence of aging on the insertion of the Achilles tendon: a magnetic resonance study.	The terminal insertion point of the AT on the CB in younger subjects was more distal, whereas in older individuals it was more proximal. These results could help in developing novel strategies for treatment and prophylaxis of AT injuries in particular patient age groups. Anatomical data about the AT insertion are crucial for developing a computer model of the AT and for biomechanical considerations regarding this tendon. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301250	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301250	aging
IUBMB life	Cholinergic and peptidergic neurotransmission in the adrenal medulla: A dynamic control of stimulus-secretion coupling.	Synaptic neurotransmission at the splanchnic nerve-chromaffin cell synapse is a chief element of the stimulus-secretion coupling in the adrenal medullary tissue, managing and regulating the secretion of catecholamines. Making the state of play more intricate than initially envisioned, the synaptic vesicles of nerve terminals innervating the medulla contain various compounds, including various neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. Under basal conditions associated with a low splanchnic nerve discharge rate, neurotransmission is ensured by the synaptic release of the primary neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh). Under sustained and repetitive stimulations of the splanchnic nerve, as triggered in response to stressors, the synaptic release of neuropeptides, such as the pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide PACAP, supplants ACh release. The anatomical and functional changes that occur presynaptically at the preganglionic splanchnic nerve, combined with changes occurring postsynaptically at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), confer the adrenomedullary synapses a solid and persistent aptitude to functional remodeling, from birth to aging. The present review focuses on the composite cholinergic and noncholinergic nature of neurotransmission occurring at the splanchnic nerve-chromaffin cell synapse and its remodeling in response to physiological or pathological stimuli.	2019	eng	Review	England	31301221	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301221	aging
Journal of the American Geriatrics Society	Measuring Effects of Nondrug Interventions on Behaviors: Music & Memory Pilot Study.	Direct observations were most likely to capture behavioral responses, followed by staff interviews. Nursing-home based, pragmatic trials that rely solely on available administrative data may fail to detect effects of nonpharmaceutical interventions on behaviors. Findings are relevant to evaluations of nonpharmaceutical strategies for addressing behaviors in NHs, and will inform a large, National Institute on Aging-funded pragmatic trial beginning spring 2019.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301191	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301191	aging
Journal of cosmetic dermatology	In vivo evaluation of the effectiveness of biocellulose facial masks as active delivery systems to skin.	This study highlights that biocellulose masks are effective delivery systems to successfully release into the skin several types of active compounds exerting many beneficial effects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31301106	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301106	aging
Probiotics and antimicrobial proteins	Effects of Potential Probiotic Strains on the Fecal Microbiota and Metabolites of D-Galactose-Induced Aging Rats Fed with High-Fat Diet.	Both aging and diet play an important role in influencing the gut ecosystem. Using premature senescent rats induced by D-galactose and fed with high-fat diet, this study aims to investigate the effects of different potential probiotic strains on the dynamic changes of fecal microbiome and metabolites. In this study, male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed with high-fat diet and injected with D-galactose for 12 weeks to induce aging. The effect of Lactobacillus plantarum DR7, L. fermentum DR9, and L. reuteri 8513d administration on the fecal microbiota profile, short-chain fatty acids, and water-soluble compounds were analyzed. It was found that the administration of the selected strains altered the gut microbiota diversity and composition, even at the phylum level. The fecal short-chain fatty acid content was also higher in groups that were administered with the potential probiotic strains. Analysis of the fecal water-soluble metabolites revealed that administration of L. plantarum DR7 and L. reuteri 8513d led to higher fecal content of compounds related to amino acid metabolism such as tryptophan, leucine, tyrosine, cysteine, methionine, valine, and lysine; while administration of L. fermentum DR9 led to higher prevalence of compounds related to carbohydrate metabolism such as erythritol, xylitol, and arabitol. In conclusion, it was observed that different strains of lactobacilli can cause difference alteration in the gut microbiota and the metabolites, suggesting the urgency to explore the specific metabolic impact of specific strains on the host.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301059	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301059	aging
Advances in experimental medicine and biology	Sperm DNA Fragmentation: Mechanisms of Origin.	Spermatozoa have the task to deliver an intact paternal genome to the oocyte and to support a successful embryo development. The high levels of sperm DNA fragmentation (sDF) found in sub-/infertile men threat human reproduction and health of the offspring. Strategies to prevent the onset of this type of sperm damage are extensively sought.sDF can be induced by factors like lifestyle-related habits, diseases, drugs, aging, infections and exposure to pollutants. At the cell level, all these factors induce sperm DNA breaks by three main mechanisms: apoptosis, impairment of sperm chromatin maturation and oxidative stress. Apoptosis and defects in maturation of sperm chromatin appear to act in the testis and account for DNA breaks found in dead ejaculated spermatozoa, whereas oxidative stress is likely inducing sDF during the transit through the male genital tracts and accounting for DNA breaks observed in viable spermatozoa of the ejaculate. Oxidative stress appears to be also the main mechanism responsible for induction of sDF after ejaculation, during in vitro manipulation of spermatozoa. Whether or not mature spermatozoa are able to trigger a cell death program is not yet clarified. In particular, it is not clear whether apoptotic nucleases or reactive oxygen species are responsible for producing DNA breaks in ejaculated mature spermatozoa. Knowledge of the mechanisms inducing sDF is a valuable starting point to define possible therapeutic options that however are still far to be established.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301047	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301047	aging
Advances in experimental medicine and biology	Age-Dependent De Novo Mutations During Spermatogenesis and Their Consequences.	Spermatogenesis is a highly complex biological process during which germ cells undergo recurrent rounds of DNA replication and cell division that may predispose to random mutational events. Hence, germ cells are vulnerable to the introduction of a range of de novo mutations, in particular chromosomal aberrations, point mutations and small indels. The main mechanisms through which mutations may occur during spermatogenesis are (i) errors in DNA replication, (ii) inefficient repair of non-replicative DNA damage between cell divisions and (iii) exposure to mutagens during lifetime. Any genetic alteration in the spermatozoa, if not repaired/eliminated, can be passed on to the offspring, potentially leading to malformations, chromosomal anomalies and monogenic diseases. Spontaneous de novo mutations tend to arise and accumulate with a higher frequency during testicular aging. In fact, there is an increased incidence of some chromosomal aberrations and a greater risk of congenital disorders, collectively termed paternal age effect (PAE), in children conceived by fathers with advanced age. PAE disorders are related to well-characterized de novo point mutations leading to a selective advantage on the mutant spermatogonial stem cells that cause a progressive enrichment over time of mutant spermatozoa in the testis.The purpose of this chapter is to provide a summary on the spontaneous genetic alterations that occur during spermatogenesis, focusing on their underlying mechanisms and their consequences in the offspring.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31301044	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31301044	aging
GeroScience	Genetic conversion of proliferative astroglia into neurons after cerebral ischemia: a new therapeutic tool for the aged brain?	Ischemic stroke represents the 2nd leading cause of death worldwide and the leading cause for long-term disabilities, for which no cure exists. After stroke, neurons are frequently lost in the infarct core. On the other hand, other cells such as astrocytes become reactive and proliferative, disrupting the neurovascular unit in the lesioned area, especially in the aged brain. Therefore, restoring the balance between neurons and nonneuronal cells within the perilesional area is crucial for post stroke recovery. In addition, the aged post stroke brain mounts a fulminant proliferative astroglial response leading to the buildup of gliotic scars that prevent neural regeneration. Therefore, "melting" glial scars has been attempted for decades, albeit with little success. Alternative strategies include transforming inhibitory gliotic tissue into an environment conducive to neuronal regeneration and axonal growth by genetic conversion of astrocytes into neurons. The latter idea has gained momentum following the discovery that in vivo direct lineage reprogramming in the adult mammalian brain is a feasible strategy for reprogramming nonneuronal cells into neurons. This exciting new technology emerged as a new approach to circumvent cell transplantation for stroke therapy. However, the potential of this new methodology has not been yet tested to improve restoration of structure and function in the hostile environment caused by the fulminant inflammatory reaction in the brains of aged animals.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31300928	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300928	aging
Nature communications	Brain somatic mutations observed in Alzheimer's disease associated with aging and dysregulation of tau phosphorylation.	The role of brain somatic mutations in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is not well understood. Here, we perform deep whole-exome sequencing (average read depth 584×) in 111 postmortem hippocampal formation and matched blood samples from 52 patients with AD and 11 individuals not affected by AD. The number of somatic single nucleotide variations (SNVs) in AD brain specimens increases significantly with aging, and the rate of mutation accumulation in the brain is 4.8-fold slower than that in AD blood. The putatively pathogenic brain somatic mutations identified in 26.9% (14 of 52) of AD individuals are enriched in PI3K-AKT, MAPK, and AMPK pathway genes known to contribute to hyperphosphorylation of tau. We show that a pathogenic brain somatic mutation in PIN1 leads to a loss-of-function mutation. In vitro mimicking of haploinsufficiency of PIN1 aberrantly increases tau phosphorylation and aggregation. This study provides new insights into the genetic architecture underlying the pathogenesis of AD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31300647	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300647	aging
Journal of the American Board of Family Medicine : JABFM	Physician and Family Discussions about Driving Safety: Findings from the LongROAD Study.	Few older adults had driving safety conversations with their family or physicians. Practical and effective interventions are needed to engage family and physicians in assisting older adults with risk assessment and driving cessation planning to maintain mobility and well-being.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300582	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300582	aging
Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Postnatal Runx2 deletion leads to low bone mass and adipocyte accumulation in mice bone tissues.	Global gene deletion studies have established that Runt-related transcription factor-2 (Runx2) is essential during skeletogenesis for osteoblastic differentiation in both intramembranous and endochondral ossification processes. However, the postnatal significance of Runx2 in vivo is poorly understood because a global Runx2 deletion causes perinatal lethality. In this study, we generated tamoxifen-induced Runx2 global deficient mice by crossing Runx2	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31300199	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31300199	aging
Reproductive biology and endocrinology : RB&E	New Frontiers in IVF: mtDNA and autologous germline mitochondrial energy transfer.	Many infertility specialists support the existence of a relationship between the levels of mitochondrial DNA and the quality of the blastocysts. Despite the extensive use of pre-implantation genetic testing for aneuploidy, a significant percentage of euploid embryos do not implant even though the endometrium is normal. Mitochondrial DNA may be used as a new test in evaluating embryonic vitality.Ovarian aging leads to a decrease in the quantity and quality of oocytes and aged oocytes have a reduced number of mitochondria. Mitochondria are the energy factories of the cells and their lacked could leads to lower fertilization rates and poor embryonic development. Various strategies have been tested to increase the mitochondria quantity and thus improve the quality of oocytes used in in vitro fertilization. Results of ovarian rejuvenation techniques such as autologous mitochondrial transplantation have been controversial. In this review, we describe the state of the art concerning the use of mitochondrial DNA and autologous mitochondrial transplantation as new possibilities to increase success in vitro fertilization.	2019	eng	Review	England	31299996	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299996	aging
Archives of oral biology	Which are the main fluorophores in skin and oral mucosa? A review with emphasis on clinical applications of tissue autofluorescence.	Fluorophores stimulated through AF devices are implied in different physiologic and pathologic processes. AF seems to be useful for several clinical applications, especially in skin department. Because most of the studies show a low level of evidence, further studies are necessary in such a promising and fascinating field.	2019	eng	Review	England	31299549	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299549	aging
The Journal of surgical research	Geriatric trauma in Santa Cruz, Bolivia.	As life expectancy improves, the incidence of geriatric trauma will continue to increase. Understanding the characteristics associated with trauma in GP can allow for effective prevention methods, resource distribution, and discharge planning.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299438	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299438	aging
Journal of affective disorders	Association between epigenetic age acceleration and depressive symptoms in a prospective cohort study of urban-dwelling adults.	IEAA and AgeAccel, two measures of EAA using Horvath algorithm, were linked to a reduced "positive affect", overall and among Whites. Future studies are needed to replicate our findings and test bi-directional relationships.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31299406	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299406	aging
Bone	Aging negatively impacts the ability of megakaryocytes to stimulate osteoblast proliferation and bone mass.	Osteoblast number and activity decreases with aging, contributing to the age-associated decline of bone mass, but the mechanisms underlying changes in osteoblast activity are not well understood. Here, we show that the age-associated bone loss critically depends on impairment of the ability of megakaryocytes (MKs) to support osteoblast proliferation. Co-culture of osteoblast precursors with young MKs is known to increase osteoblast proliferation and bone formation. However, co-culture of osteoblast precursors with aged MKs resulted in significantly fewer osteoblasts compared to co-culture with young MKs, and this was associated with the downregulation of transforming growth factor beta. In addition, the ability of MKs to increase bone mass was attenuated during aging as transplantation of GATA1	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299382	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299382	aging
Experimental gerontology	The effects of dual-tasking on temporal gait adaptation and de-adaptation to the split-belt treadmill in older adults.	Dual-tasking led to slower and more variable temporal gait adaptation to the split-belt treadmill and larger variability during de-adaptation. Our findings indicate that in older adults, gait adaptation is affected by a competing cognitive task and highlights the importance of being aware of the influence of dual-task on short-term learning when developing rehabilitation programs for cognitive-motor interference.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31299212	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299212	aging
Investigative radiology	Ultrasound Time-Harmonic Elastography of the Aorta: Effect of Age and Hypertension on Aortic Stiffness.	Ultrasound time-harmonic elastography of the upper abdominal aorta allows quantification of aortic wall stiffness in vivo and shows significantly higher values in patients with arterial hypertension.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31299035	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31299035	aging
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	The role of EGFR signaling in age-related osteoporosis in mice cortical bone.	So far, there has been no effective cure for osteoporotic cortical bone, the most significant change in long bone structure during aging and the main cause of bone fragility fractures, because its underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms remain largely unknown. We used 3- and 15-mo-old mice as well as 15-mo-old mice treated with vehicle and gefitinib to evaluate structural, cellular, and molecular changes in cortical bone. We found that the senescence of osteoprogenitors was increased, whereas the expression of phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) on the endosteal surface of cortical bone down-regulated in middle-aged 15-mo-old mice compared with young 3-mo-old mice. Further decreasing EGFR signaling by gefitinib treatment in middle-aged mice resulted in promoted senescence of osteoprogenitors and accelerated cortical bone degeneration. Moreover, inhibiting EGFR signaling suppressed the expression of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (Ezh2), the repressor of cell senescence-inducer genes, through ERK1/2 pathway, thereby promoting senescence in osteoprogenitors. Down-regulated EGFR signaling plays a physiologically significant role during aging by reducing Ezh2 expression, leading to the senescence of osteoprogenitors and the decline in bone formation on the endosteal surface of cortical bone.-Liu, G., Xie, Y., Su, J., Qin, H., Wu, H., Li, K., Yu, B., Zhang, X. The role of EGFR signaling in age-related osteoporosis in mice cortical bone.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298955	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298955	aging
The Gerontologist	The Institutional Active Aging Paradigm in Europe (2002-2015).	The institutional paradigm on active aging is evolving into a reductive treatment of a phenomenon that is multidimensional. International institutions and researchers should pay closer attention and forge a path toward an honest and critical examination of the real conditions and expectations of older people concerning the discursive and practical proposals of active aging, in all its different forms.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298697	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298697	aging
Cerebral cortex (New York, N.Y. : 1991)	Dendritic Spine Density and Dynamics of Layer 5 Pyramidal Neurons of the Primary Motor Cortex Are Elevated With Aging.	It is well established that motor impairment often occurs alongside healthy aging, leading to problems with fine motor skills and coordination. Although previously thought to be caused by neuronal death accumulating across the lifespan, it is now believed that the source of this impairment instead stems from more subtle changes in neural connectivity. The dendritic spine is a prime target for exploration of this problem because it is the postsynaptic partner of most excitatory synapses received by the pyramidal neuron, a cortical cell that carries much of the information processing load in the cerebral cortex. We repeatedly imaged the same dendrites in young adult and aged mouse motor cortex over the course of 1 month to look for differences in the baseline state of the dendritic spine population. These experiments reveal increased dendritic spine density, without obvious changes in spine clustering, occurring at the aged dendrite. Additionally, aged dendrites exhibit elevated spine turnover and stabilization alongside decreased long-term spine survival. These results suggest that at baseline the aged motor cortex may exist in a perpetual state of relative instability and attempts at compensation. This phenotype of aging may provide clues for future targets of aging-related motor impairment remediation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298696	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298696	aging
Aesthetic surgery journal	Achieving a Youthful Midface: Examination of Midface Anatomy Improvement Following Lower Blepharoplasty With Fat Transposition and Transtemporal Midface Lift With Lower Lid Skin Pinch.	Both approaches (transtemporal midface lift and lower blepharoplasty with fat transposition) can successfully improve the lower lid midface contour as we demonstrated statistically significant improvement at 6 months postoperatively.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31298695	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298695	aging
Rejuvenation research	Reply to the commentary "Regulation of S-Nitrosylation in Aging and Senescence".	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298616	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298616	aging
Rejuvenation research	Reply to Rizza and Filomeni's Reply to the commentary "Regulation of S-Nitrosylation in Aging and Senescence".	There is controversy over the role of S-nitrosylation in aging and specifically whether GSNOR expression levels decline into middle age, and whether increased GSNOR levels observed in old mice and humans confer a survival benefit or are detrimental. Significant work is necessary to develop appropriate mouse models with tunable GSNOR expression as well as increased scrutiny of human epidemiological data in order to establish GSNOR as a longevity gene. For the present, it may be most useful to view GSNOR as a key cell signaling modulator that must be maintained in a narrow range in appropriate tissue contexts to maintain homeostasis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298613	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298613	aging
Cellular reprogramming	Adipose-Derived Stem/Stromal Cells Recapitulate Aging Biomarkers and Show Reduced Stem Cell Plasticity Affecting Their Adipogenic Differentiation Capacity.	Stromal mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have the capability to self-renew and can differentiate into multiple cell types of the mesoderm germ layer, but their properties are affected by molecular aging mechanisms. MSCs can be obtained from adipose tissue termed as adipose-derived stem/stromal cells (ASCs) representing a promising tool for studying age-related diseases in detail. ASCs from young (16 weeks) and old (>108 weeks) rabbits were successfully isolated and propagated. ASCs showed the typical morphology and stained positive for CD105, Vimentin, Collagenase 1A, and negative for CD14, CD90, and CD73, demonstrating their mesenchymal origin. ASCs expressed MSC markers, including 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298565	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298565	aging
Aging cell	Born this way: Hippocampal neurogenesis across the lifespan.	The capability of the mammalian brain to generate new neurons through the lifespan has gained much attention for the promise of new therapeutic possibilities especially for the aging brain. One of the brain regions that maintains a neurogenesis-permissive environment is the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Here, new neurons are generated from a pool of multipotent neural progenitor cells to become fully functional neurons that are integrated into the brain circuitry. A growing body of evidence points to the fact that neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus is necessary for certain memory processes, and in mood regulation, while alterations in hippocampal neurogenesis have been associated with a myriad of neurological and psychiatric disorders. More recently, evidence has come to light that new neurons may differ in their vulnerability to environmental and disease-related influences depending on the time during the life course at which they are exposed. Thus, it has been the topic of intense research in recent years. In this review, we will discuss the complex process and associated functional relevance of hippocampal neurogenesis during the embryonic/postnatal period and in adulthood. We consider the implications of hippocampal neurogenesis during the developmentally critical periods of adolescence and older age. We will further consider the literature surrounding hippocampal neurogenesis and its functional role during these critical periods with a view to providing insight into the potential of harnessing neurogenesis for health and therapeutic benefit.	2019	eng	Review	England	31298475	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298475	aging
European review for medical and pharmacological sciences	Infodemiological patterns in searching medication errors: relationship with risk management and shift work.	Google Trends® search query volumes related to medication errors, risk management and shift work are different. RSVs for risk management are higher, and they are correlated with medication errors. Also, shift work search appears to be lower. These results should be interpreted in order to correctly evaluate how to decrease the number of medication errors in different health care related setting.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31298407	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298407	aging
Clinical and applied thrombosis/hemostasis : official journal of the International Academy of Clinical and Applied Thrombosis/Hemostasis	Joint Bleeding Tendencies in Adult Patients With Hemophilia: It's Not All Pharmacokinetics.	Hemophilic arthropathy from joint bleeding remains a complication with major morbidity in the increasingly aging patients with hemophilia. Prophylactic clotting factor infusions, based on pharmacokinetic dosing to reduce bleeding rates, are being explored more and more. However, there is little evidence on the benefits of pharmacokinetic dosing in direct association with bleeding events. Here, we prospectively followed a cohort of adult patients with hemophilia A and B (n = 26) and arthropathic joints on various clotting factor products over a period of 2 years with clinical and radiographic joint health assessments, frequent joint ultrasound, and pharmacokinetic studies. Joint bleeds and synovitis with synovial vascularity changes were objectively diagnosed by musculoskeletal ultrasound and power Doppler and analyzed in relation to pharmacokinetic, joint- and patient-specific parameters. Results revealed that, contrary to common beliefs, bleeding episodes were not readily explained by pharmacokinetic features, as they were not associated with more time spent below certain clotting factor thresholds. Joint bleeding was found to be associated with prominent vascularity changes, suggesting that vascular remodeling and leakiness may contribute to joint bleeding that cannot be prevented by clotting factor replacement alone.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31298044	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31298044	aging
Pediatric transplantation	Telomere length regulators are activated in young men after pediatric kidney transplantation compared to healthy controls and survivors of childhood cancer-A cross-sectional study.	Chronic diseases are known to cause premature aging and frailty. Data about telomere length and telomere length-regulating proteins after pediatric KTx are scarce. Leukocyte telomere length and gene expression level of eight telomere-binding proteins were analyzed in 20 KTx recipients, eight childhood NBL survivors, and nine healthy controls. The influence of key clinical parameters on telomere length and on regulators of telomere length was evaluated. The telomere length in the KTx recipients tended to be shorter (0.53 AU) than in the healthy controls (0.64 AU) but longer than in the NBL survivors (0.38 AU). There was no significant difference in telomere length between the NBL survivors and the KTx recipients (P = .110). The gene expression level of telomere length-preserving protein RPA1 was significantly higher in the KTx recipients than among the NBL survivors or healthy controls, while the expression of TRF2 and the tumor suppressor gene p16 was significantly higher in the KTX recipients when compared to the controls. TRF2 and TIN2 correlated significantly with hsCRP; additionally, TRF2 showed significant correlation with plasma creatinine and eGFR. KTx recipients have near to normal telomere length, but they have significantly higher gene expression levels of telomere regulatory proteins compared with healthy controls, suggesting activation of mechanisms preserving telomere length among KTx recipients. Our results suggest that declined graft function and consequent inflammatory response may have influence on telomerase activity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Denmark	31297925	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297925	aging
The International journal of health planning and management	Visualizing the knowledge structure of medication-adherence research: A bibliometric analysis (1997-2016).	This study involves a bibliometric analysis of the medication-adherence research and covers publications from 1997 to 2016. A database of 19 621 publications and 335 208 references from the Web of Science was investigated using the CiteSpace software. Some interesting findings were obtained. First, the most significant developments and progress in the medication-adherence research have occurred in North America and Europe. Second, Osterberg L. and the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) are the most cited author and journal, respectively, with the strongest academic influence. Third, the existing studies on medication adherence primarily focus on pharmacology/pharmacy, psychiatry, public environmental occupational health, and general internal medicine. Fourth, research hotspots showed a diversifying trend and increasingly covered chronic diseases. Moreover, the topic of integrating formal outcome evaluations into adherence interventions is one long-term research hotspot. In addition, the research frontiers mainly focus on medication adherence for HIV/AIDS patients, especially active antiretroviral therapy. Finally, the evolution of the medication-adherence research has occurred in approximately three stages: The first stage involved the introduction of the term "compliance" into medicine, then the primary focus shifted to patient adherence to HIV/AIDS medication, and the final stage has involved a diversifying trend with more diseases and methods for measuring adherence being researched in the current stage. Furthermore, because of an aging population and a disease spectrum change in the current phase, the focus of medication-adherence research has gradually shifted from infectious diseases to chronic diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31297912	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297912	aging
Neurourology and urodynamics	Epidemiology, progression, and predictive factors of urinary incontinence in older community-dwelling Mexican adults: Longitudinal data from the Mexican Health and Aging Study.	UI is a common health problem and its prevalence and severity increase with age. Addressing modifiable risk factors such as depression and falls could decrease the prevalence and incidence of UI and its subtypes. Further studies should also focus on the relationship between mixed UI and male mortality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297879	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297879	aging
Molecular imaging and biology : MIB : the official publication of the Academy of Molecular Imaging	Quantitative Assessment of Age-Associated Alterations in Brain Vasculature in Wild-Type Mice and in Bigenic Mice that Model Alzheimer's Disease.	The results demonstrate that even subtle changes in vessel morphology can be noninvasively quantified. This is of great interest for AD, but also to other models of neurodegenerative diseases involving macrovascular dysfunction.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297706	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297706	aging
The international journal of cardiovascular imaging	Age related structural and functional changes in left ventricular performance in healthy subjects: a 2D echocardiographic study.	Left ventricular (LV) adaptation to aging is currently poorly understood. We aimed to characterize age related changes in LV structure and function by studying a large group of healthy subjects across a wide age range. Prospectively enrolled healthy volunteers (n = 778, 327 females; age 18 to 100 years, mean age 49.8 ± 18.1 years), were divided into 4 age groups: 18 to 34 years (n = 165); 35 to 49 years (n = 242), 50 to 79 years (n = 334) and ≥ 80 years (n = 40). All subjects underwent clinical examination, as well as comprehensive transthoracic echocardiogram [TTE]. Body mass index, systolic blood pressure (BP), and left atrial volume (p < 0.0001) increased with age while diastolic BP (p < 0.0001) decreased over time. LV mass/body surface area (BSA) and relative wall thickness increased with age (p < 0.0001) coincident with worsening parameters of diastolic function (E/A and E/Em, p < 0.0001). The ejection fraction and Sm did not change significantly. Stroke volume, ejection time index, flow rate and stroke work significantly increased with age (p < 0.01). The arterial elastance (Ea), a measure of ventricular afterload, and ventricular elastance (Ees), an index of LV systolic stiffness did not change with age nor did their ratio (Ees/Ea) the latter being an expression of ventricular-arterial coupling. Age, gender and LVM were the main independent variables associated with LV systolic function. In conclusion, LV adaptation to aging in a healthy cohort is characterized by concentric LV remodeling, increased contractility and preserved ventricular-arterial coupling.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31297672	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297672	aging
Journal of medical systems	Age Prediction Based on Brain MRI Image: A Survey.	Human age prediction is an interesting and applicable issue in different fields. It can be based on various criteria such as face image, DNA methylation, chest plate radiographs, knee radiographs, dental images and etc. Most of the age prediction researches have mainly been based on images. Since the image processing and Machine Learning (ML) techniques have grown up, the investigations were led to use them in age prediction problem. The implementations would be used in different fields, especially in medical applications. Brain Age Estimation (BAE) has attracted more attention in recent years and it would be so helpful in early diagnosis of some neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer, Parkinson, Huntington, etc. BAE is performed on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) images to compute the brain ages. Studies based on brain MRI shows that there is a relation between accelerated aging and accelerated brain atrophy. This refers to the effects of neurodegenerative diseases on brain structure while making the whole of it older. This paper reviews and summarizes the main approaches for age prediction based on brain MRI images including preprocessing methods, useful tools used in different research works and the estimation algorithms. We categorize the BAE methods based on two factors, first the way of processing MRI images, which includes pixel-based, surface-based, or voxel-based methods and second, the generation of ML algorithms that includes traditional or Deep Learning (DL) methods. The modern techniques as DL methods help MRI based age prediction to get results that are more accurate. In recent years, more precise and statistical ML approaches have been utilized with the help of related tools for simplifying computations and getting accurate results. Pros and cons of each research and the challenges in each work are expressed and some guidelines and deliberations for future research are suggested.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31297614	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31297614	aging
 	Tryptophan-Kynurenine Metabolites in Exercise and Mental Health	In our efforts to identify molecular mediators of the benefits of exercise to human health, we have uncovered a biochemical pathway in skeletal muscle that positively impacts mental health. This mechanism is activated by endurance training and controlled by the transcriptional coactivator PGC-1α1, which induces transcription of several kynurenine aminotransferase (KAT) genes in muscle. KAT enzymes catabolize the neuroinflammatory tryptophan metabolite kynurenine, which can accumulate in the brain and lead to alterations associated with stress-induced depression (among other psychiatric diseases). Here, we discuss our findings in the context of what is known about the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradation and how its many metabolites can directly affect the brain. These findings provide a mechanism for how physical exercise can improve mental health and offers potential therapeutic targets for future antidepressant medications.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314466	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314466	stress
 	Optimized Engagement of Macrophages and Satellite Cells in the Repair and Regeneration of Exercised Muscle	Recurring contraction-relaxation cycles exert a massive mechanical load on muscle fibers. Training adaptation therefore entails the promotion of a series of biological programs aimed at inducing a better stress response but also at optimizing repair processes. Muscle regeneration is controlled by an intricate, tightly coordinated engagement of muscle fibers, satellite cells, macrophages and other cell types. In this review, we discuss some of the recent insights into the regulation of muscle repair and regeneration in exercised muscle, elucidate the role of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1α (PGC-1α) in this context, and speculate about potential implications for the treatment of muscle diseases.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314461	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314461	stress
 	Mechanical Circulatory Support in ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction	Cardiogenic shock (CS) occurs in approximately 8–10% of patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). While immediate percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) continues to be the mainline treatment strategy, mortality remains as high as 40% before hospital discharge. Even after hospital discharge, survivors of cardiogenic shock complicating myocardial infarction (CSMI) often suffer from severe heart failure and its consequences, including repeated hospitalization and high mortality. Mechanical circulatory support (MCS) devices during CSMI PCI can be lifesaving by supporting poor ventricular function while decreasing myocardial wall stress and relieving ischemia. In this chapter, we review the definition and pathophysiology of CSMI, the major ventricular support devices, an algorithm for MCS use in STEMI, relevant data, and a prototypic case that illustrates CSMI management augmented by MCS.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314421	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314421	stress
 	The Emerging Theoretical Framework of Life Course Health Development	Concepts of what constitutes health, and theories about how health is produced and optimized, are constantly evolving in response to myriad social and cultural expectations shaped by our contemporary worldview, scientific advances, improvements in health interventions, and the changing capacity of the health system. Stimulated originally by a series of studies demonstrating how growth during early life is related to chronic health conditions that emerge many decades later, new research is demonstrating how complex developmental processes integrate a range of biological, behavioral, social, and environmental influences that modify gene expression, modulate physiologic and behavioral function, and dynamically shape different pathways of health production. These empirical findings are highlighting the limitations of the more mechanistic biomedical and biopsychosocial models of health, which fail to offer comprehensive explanations about such phenomena as the developmental origins of health, how stress affects current and future health, and the consequences of dynamic interactions between individuals and their environments over time. The comfort and certainty of simple, linear, and deterministic causal pathways are giving way to the uncomfortable uncertainty of nonlinear causal clusters that are networked together into complex, multilevel, interactive, and relational systems. Informed by new theoretical perspectives emerging from such fields of study as developmental psychology, systems biology, epigenetics, the developmental origins of chronic disease, and evolutionary developmental biology, a coherent transdisciplinary framework is emerging which we call Life Course Health Development (LCHD) and which is presented in this chapter as a set of seven principles: (1) health development, (2) unfolding, (3) complexity, (4) timing, (5) plasticity, (6) thriving, and (7) harmony. LCHD offers a new perspective that will guide future scientific inquiry on health development and facilitate synthesis of medicine and public health that links treatment, prevention, and health promotion and catalyzes more integrated and networked strategies for designing, organizing, and implementing multilevel health interventions that transcend individual and population dichotomies. We hope that the LCHD framework presented here, coupled with our explanatory narrative, will encourage theory building and testing, inspire innovative transdisciplinary research, and mature the framework into a scientific model with descriptive, explanatory, and predictive utility. Furthermore, we hope that LCHD will shine a light on the conundrum of how little attributable risk is explained in many studies of chronic disease, how early experience conditions future biological response patterns, and how these early experiences play through complex, environmentally influenced, and developmentally plastic health development pathways.	2019	eng	Review	 	31314301	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314301	stress
Diabetic medicine : a journal of the British Diabetic Association	A pilot randomized controlled trial of a gratitude intervention for adolescents with Type 1 diabetes.	This is the first randomized trial of a gratitude journalling intervention for adolescents with Type 1 diabetes. Gratitude journalling interventions represent a clinically usable approach. If and how it helps to stabilise glycaemic control in adolescents with Type 1 diabetes remains to be confirmed in future research. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31315150	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315150	stress
Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie	Treatment with synthetic glucocorticoid impairs bone metabolism, as revealed by in vivo imaging of osteoblasts and osteoclasts in medaka fish.	Glucocorticoids (GCs) play an important role in the stress reaction and function in the development of multiple tissues in our body. When given chronically in supraphysiologic doses, GCs are associated with orthodontic tooth movement, with serious side effects and particularly adverse effects on bone metabolism. However, the effects of steroids on bone cell dynamics are incompletely understood. Therefore, in this present study we examined the participation of osteoblasts and osteoclasts in osterix-DsRed/TRAP-EGFP double transgenic (Tg) medaka treated with synthetic GCs. Chronic continuous administration of prednisolone (PN) significantly reduced the fluorescence signals in the whole body of both osterix-DsRed and TRAP-EGFP medaka at 18 days, and those of the pharyngeal bone and tooth region at 32 days. To examine the capacity of the medaka for fracture healing during chronic administration of PN, we caused a fracture of a part of the bony fin ray at 18 days after the initiation of PN continuous administration. The bone fracture healing was significantly delayed by 32 days, accompanied by decreased signal area of both osterix-DsRed and TRAP-EGFP compared with that of the control. Next, to investigate the effect of acute administration of GC on the fracture healing, we started administration of dexamethasone (DX) immediately after the bone fracture, and this administration lasted during the 11 days of fracture healing. The results showed that the TRAP-EGFP-positive osteoclasts were reduced in area, but not the osterix-DsRed-positive osteoblasts. Lastly, to confirm the function of the glucocorticoid receptor in bone healing, we generated glucocorticoid receptor 2-deficient medaka (gr2	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31315073	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315073	stress
Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie	Suhuang antitussive capsule inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation and ameliorates pulmonary dysfunction via suppression of endoplasmic reticulum stress in cough variant asthma.	Pulmonary dysfunction is tightly associated with cough variant asthma (CVA), a respiratory damage disease. Suhuang antitussive capsule (Suhuang), one of traditional Chinese patent medicines, plays a crucial role in the treatment and complication of CVA in the long clinical application. In this study, we aimed to investigate the protective effects and underlying antitussive mechanisms of Suhuang on pulmonary function in ovalbumin (OVA)-induced CVA rats. Administration (i.g.) of Suhuang significantly alleviated pulmonary damage and dysfunction. Suhuang improved ER stress and PKCε translocation via regulation of Ca	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31315072	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315072	stress
Free radical biology & medicine	Age-dependent dysregulation of redox genes may contribute to fibrotic pulmonary disease susceptibility.	Aging is associated with enhanced oxidative stress and increased susceptibility to numerous diseases. This relationship is particularly striking with respect to the incidence of fibrotic lung disease. To identify potential mechanisms underlying the association between aging and susceptibility to fibrotic lung disease we analyzed transcriptome data from 342 disease-free human lung samples as a function of donor age. Our analysis reveals that aging in lung is accompanied by modest yet progressive changes in genes modulating redox homeostasis, the TGF-beta 1 signaling axis, and the extracellular matrix (ECM), pointing to an aging lung functional network (ALFN). Further, the transcriptional changes we document are tissue-specific, with age-dependent gene expression patterns differing across organ systems. Our findings suggest that the age-associated increased incidence of fibrotic pulmonary disease occurs in the context of tissue-specific, age-dependent transcriptional changes. Understanding the relationship between age-associated gene expression and susceptibility to fibrotic pulmonary disease may allow for more accurate risk stratification and effective therapeutic interventions within this challenging clinical space.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315063	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315063	stress
Cell reports	A Receptor of the Immunoglobulin Superfamily Regulates Adaptive Thermogenesis.	Exquisite regulation of energy homeostasis protects from nutrient deprivation but causes metabolic dysfunction upon nutrient excess. In human and murine adipose tissue, the accumulation of ligands of the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) accompanies obesity, implicating this receptor in energy metabolism. Here, we demonstrate that mice bearing global- or adipocyte-specific deletion of Ager, the gene encoding RAGE, display superior metabolic recovery after fasting, a cold challenge, or high-fat feeding. The RAGE-dependent mechanisms were traced to suppression of protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation of its key targets, hormone-sensitive lipase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, upon β-adrenergic receptor stimulation-processes that dampen the expression and activity of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) and thermogenic programs. This work identifies the innate role of RAGE as a key node in the immunometabolic networks that control responses to nutrient supply and cold challenges, and it unveils opportunities to harness energy expenditure in environmental and metabolic stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315054	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315054	stress
Cell reports	Molecular Mechanism of Cellular Oxidative Stress Sensing by Keap1.	The Keap1-Nrf2 system plays a central role in the oxidative stress response; however, the identity of the reactive oxygen species sensor within Keap1 remains poorly understood. Here, we show that a Keap1 mutant lacking 11 cysteine residues retains the ability to target Nrf2 for degradation, but it is unable to respond to cysteine-reactive Nrf2 inducers. Of the 11 mutated cysteine residues, we find that 4 (Cys226/613/622/624) are important for sensing hydrogen peroxide. Our analyses of multiple mutant mice lines, complemented by MEFs expressing a series of Keap1 mutants, reveal that Keap1 uses the cysteine residues redundantly to set up an elaborate fail-safe mechanism in which specific combinations of these four cysteine residues can form a disulfide bond to sense hydrogen peroxide. This sensing mechanism is distinct from that used for electrophilic Nrf2 inducers, demonstrating that Keap1 is equipped with multiple cysteine-based sensors to detect various endogenous and exogenous stresses.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315052	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315052	stress
Cell reports	XBP-1 Remodels Lipid Metabolism to Extend Longevity.	The endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response (UPR	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31315038	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315038	stress
Molecular and cellular endocrinology	Nicotine induces insulin resistance via downregulation of Nrf2 in cardiomyocyte.	Clinical studies have demonstrated that cigarette smoking is strongly associated with insulin resistance and heart disease. Nicotine is considered the primary toxin constituent associated with smoking. However, the distinct molecular mechanism of nicotine-induced cardiac dysfunction remains unclear. Cardiomyocytes with nicotine-induced insulin resistance are characterized by decreased glucose uptake, as measured by 2-[N-(7-Nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl)amino]-2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-NBDG), a fluorescent derivative of glucose, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation. Immunoblotting was used to evaluate the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K, p85, Y607). We determined the impact of nicotine on insulin resistance and Nrf2, phospho-ERK and phospho-PI3K expression in the myocardial tissue of a mouse model. Nicotine increased ROS production and depressed insulin-induced glucose uptake in cardiomyocytes. Pretreatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC), an antioxidant, reversed nicotine-inhibited glucose uptake induced by insulin. Nicotine exposure directly inhibited Nrf2 and increased ERK phosphorylation in cardiomyocytes, which were obstructed by NAC. Further exploration of signaling cascades revealed nicotine-induced ROS involved in inhibiting PI3K/Nrf2 and activating ERK in cardiomyocytes. Moreover, the mouse model treated with nicotine showed glucose intolerance and impaired insulin tolerance accompanied by inhibited PI3K/Nrf2 and increased ERK in myocardial tissues. Thus, nicotine induces insulin resistance via the downregulation of Nrf2 activity in cardiomyocytes, which is a potential mechanism of the pharmacological effects of nicotine. This study identified potential therapeutic targets against nicotine-related cardiovascular diseases.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31315024	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315024	stress
Genome	Characterization of the Hippophae rhamnoides WRKY gene family and functional analysis of the role of the HrWRKY 21 gene in resistance to abiotic stresses.	Seabuckthorn (Hippophae rhamnoides L.) is a plant with economic and ecological value. It is uniquely capable of growing well under salt and drought stress. WRKY transcription factors play important roles in the ability of plants to resist stress. In this study, 48 HrWRKY genes were identified based on RNA sequencing of H. rhamnoides. Evaluation of expression pattern of HrWRKY 1, HrWRKY 17, HrWRKY 18, HrWRKY 21, HrWRKY 33-2, HrWRKY 40-2, HrWRKY 41 and HrWRKY 71 suggested that they were involved in abiotic stress. Interestingly, HrWRKY 21, one of eight HrWRKY genes, was a positive regulator of abiotic stress tolerance in H. rhamnoides. In addition, most morphological attributes of roots in transgenic Nicotiana tabacum lines (overexpressing HrWRKY 21) were also markedly increased compared with the wild-type (WT), including total lengths, specific root lengths and surface areas. Stress tolerance of transgenic lines was also correlated with higher antioxidant activity (SOD and POD), lower percentage of relative conductivity (REC) and lower activity of malondialdehyde (MDA) under stress conditions. These findings represent a foundation of knowledge about the molecular mechanisms driving resistance to adverse conditions in plants; they are a promising step towards development of tree cultivars with improved tolerance to abiotic stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31315001	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31315001	stress
The American journal of sports medicine	Lateral Meniscal Graft Transplantation: Effect of Fixation Method on Joint Contact Mechanics During Simulated Gait.	Method of meniscal fixation is under the direct control of the surgeon. From a biomechanics perspective, keyhole fixation is advocated for its ability to mimic intact knee joint contact mechanics.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314996	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314996	stress
ACS nano	Gadofullerene Nanoparticles Reverse Dysfunctions of Pancreas and Improve Hepatic Insulin Resistance for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Treatment.	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has been one of the most prevalent metabolic disorders. Nonetheless, the commonly used anti-T2DM drugs failed to substantially treat T2DM, which always rapidly rebound in blood glucose when withdrawal. Here we put forward a superior and sustainable anti-diabetic strategy using intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of amino acid functionalized gadofullerene nanoparticles (GFNPs) in db/db diabetic mice. Highly accumulated into pancreas and liver, GFNPs could prominently decrease hyperglycemia, along with permanently maintained normal blood sugar levels in T2DM mice even stopping administration. Importantly, GFNPs reversed the pancreas islets dysfunctions by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation responses, and fundamentally normalize the insulin secretory function of pancreas islets. Mechanistically, GFNPs improved hepatic insulin resistance by regulating glucose and lipid metabolism through the activation of IRS2/PI3K/AKT signal pathways, resulting in inhibiting gluconeogenesis and increasing glycogenesis in liver. Additionally, GFNPs relieved hepatic steatosis in liver, ultimately maintain systemic glucose and lipid metabolic homeostasis without obvious toxicity. Together, GFNPs reverse the dysfunctions of pancreas and improve hepatic insulin resistance, providing a promising approach for T2DM treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314991	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314991	stress
Angewandte Chemie (International ed. in English)	Orthogonal Activation of RNA-Cleaving DNAzymes in Live Cells by Reactive Oxygen Species.	RNA-cleaving DNAzymes are useful tools for intracellular metal ion sensing and gene regulation. Incorporating stimuli-responsive modifications into these DNAzymes enables their activities to be spatiotemporally and chemically controlled for more precise applications. Despite the successful development of many 'caged' DNAzymes for light-induced activation, DNAzymes that are intracellularly activable by chemical inputs of biological importance, such as reactive oxygen species (ROS), are still scarce. ROS like hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and hypochlorite (HClO) are critical mediators of oxidative stress-related cell signaling and dysregulation including activation of immune system as well as progression of diseases and aging. Using DNAzymes to study ROS-related cellular process requires ROS-activable DNAzymes to avoid the signals from cellular background events. In this work, we constructed ROS-activable DNAzymes by introducing phenylboronate and phosphorothioate modifications to the Zn2+-dependent 8-17 DNAzyme. These ROS-activable DNAzymes were orthogonally activated by H2O2 and HClO inside live human and mouse cells.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31314942	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314942	stress
Plant, cell & environment	The flip side of phospho-signaling: regulation of protein dephosphorylation and the protein phosphatase 2Cs.	Protein phosphorylation is a key signaling mechanism and has myriad effects on protein function. Phosphorylation by protein kinases can be reversed by protein phosphatases, thus allowing dynamic control of protein phosphorylation. While this may suggest a straightforward kinase-phosphatase relationship, plant genomes contain five times more kinases than phosphatases. Here we examine phospho-signaling from a protein phosphatase centered perspective and ask how relatively few phosphatases regulate many phosphorylation sites. The most abundant class of plant phosphatases, the Protein Phosphatase 2Cs (PP2Cs), are surrounded by a web of regulation including inhibitor and activator proteins as well as post-translational modifications that regulate phosphatase activity, control phosphatase stability, or determine the subcellular locations where the phosphatase is present and active. These mechanisms are best established for the Clade A PP2Cs which are key components of stress and Abscisic Acid (ABA) signaling. We also describe other PP2C Clades and illustrate how these phosphatases are highly regulated and involved in a wide range of physiological functions. Together, these examples of multiple layers of phosphatase regulation help explain the unbalanced kinase-phosphatase ratio. Continued use of phosphoproteomics to examine phosphatase targets and phosphatase-kinase relationships will be important for deeper understanding of phosphoproteome regulation.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31314921	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314921	stress
Clinical and experimental immunology	Increased grp78 transcription is correlated to reduced tlr4 transcription in patients surviving sepsis.	Regulated transcriptional-readthrough during stress maintains genome structure and ensures access to genes that are necessary for cellular recovery. A broad number of genes, including of the bacterial sensor TLR4, are markedly transcribed on initiating the systemic inflammatory response. Here we study the transcriptional patterns of tlr4 and of its modulator grp78, during human sepsis, and establish their correlations with the outcome of patients. We measured the daily tlr4 and grp78 RNA expression levels in peripheral blood of septic patients, immediately after admission to intensive care, and modeled these RNA values with a sine damping function. We obtained negative correlations between the transcription of tlr4 and grp78 RNA in the survivor group. In contrast, such relation is lost in the deceased patients. Loss of transcriptional homeostasis predicted by our model within the initial four days of hospitalization was confirmed by death of those patients up to 28 days later. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314904	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314904	stress
Journal of biomechanical engineering	A Computational Study on Deformed Bioprosthetic Valve Geometries: Clinically Relevant Valve Performance Metrics.	Transcatheter aortic valves (TAV) are symmetrically designed, but they are often not deployed inside cylindrical conduits with circular cross-sectional areas. Many TAV patients have heavily calcified aortic valves, which often result in deformed prosthesis geometries after deployment. We investigated the effects of deformed valve annulus configurations on a surgical bioprosthetic valve as a model for TAV. We studied valve leaflet motions, stresses and strains, and analogue hydrodynamic measures (using geometric methods), via finite element modeling. Two categories of annular deformations were created to approximate clinical observations: 1) non-circular annulus with valve area conserved, and 2) under-expansion (reduced area) compared to circular annulus. We found that under-expansion had more impact on increasing stenosis than non-circularity, and that non-circularity had more impact on increasing regurgitation than under-expansion. We found durability predictors (stress/strain) to be highest in commissure regions of non-circular configurations. This study adds more evidence for considering the clinical impacts of TAV deformation on acute and long-term valve performance in the design and testing phase of device development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314893	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314893	stress
Journal of biomechanical engineering	Computational optimization study of transcatheter aortic valve leaflet design using porcine and bovine leaflets.	In this study, a Bayesian optimization based computational framework is developed to investigate the design of transcatheter aortic valve (TAV) leaflets and to optimize leaflet geometry such that its peak stress under the blood pressure of 120 mmHg is reduced. A generic TAV model is parametrized by mathematical equations describing its 2D shape and its 3D stent-leaflet assembly line. Material properties previously obtained for bovine (BP) and porcine pericardium (PP) via a combination of flexural and biaxial tensile testing were incorporated into the finite element (FE) model of TAV. A Bayesian optimization approach was employed to investigate about 1000 leaflet designs for each material under the nominal circular deployment and physiological loading conditions. The optimal parameter values of the TAV model were obtained, corresponding to leaflet shapes that can reduce the peak stress by 16.7% in BP and 18.0% in PP, compared with that from the initial generic TAV model. Furthermore, it was observed that while peak stresses tend to concentrate near the stent-leaflet attachment edge, optimized geometries benefit from more uniform stress distributions in the leaflet circumferential direction. Our analysis also showed that increasing leaflet contact area redistributes peak stresses to the belly region contributing to peak stress reduction. The results from this study may inspire new TAV designs that can have better durability.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314886	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314886	stress
Revista da Escola de Enfermagem da U S P	Health alterations in nursing students after a year from admission to the undergraduate course.	The nursing academic environment presents the potential for students to become ill. Institutions should rethink their curricular elements, promote resilience, and create spaces to promote students' health.	2019	por	Journal Article	Brazil	31314865	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314865	stress
Brazilian journal of medical and biological research = Revista brasileira de pesquisas medicas e biologicas	Ca2+/Calmodulin-dependent kinase II delta B is essential for cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and complement gene expression after LPS and HSP60 stimulation in vitro.	Inflammation plays an important role in the development of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), suggesting that the immune system is a target of therapeutic interventions used for treating CVDs. This study evaluated mechanisms underlying inflammatory response and cardiomyocyte hypertrophy associated with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- or heat shock protein 60 (HSP60)-induced Toll-like receptor (TLR) stimulation and the effect of a small interfering RNA (siRNA) against Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase II delta B (CaMKIIδB) on these outcomes. Our results showed that treatment with HSP60 or LPS (TLR agonists) induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and complement system C3 and factor B gene expression. In vitro silencing of CaMKIIδB prevented complement gene transcription and cardiomyocyte hypertrophy associated with TLR 2/4 activation but did not prevent the increase in interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alfa gene expression in primary cultured cardiomyocytes. Moreover, CaMKIIδB silencing attenuated nuclear factor-kappa B expression. These findings supported the hypothesis that CaMKIIδB acts as a link between inflammation and cardiac hypertrophy. Furthermore, the present study is the first to show that extracellular HSP60 activated complement gene expression through CaMKIIδB. Our results indicated that a stress stimulus induced by LPS or HSP60 treatment promoted cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and initiated an inflammatory response through the complement system. However, CaMKIIδB silencing prevented the cardiomyocyte hypertrophy independent of inflammatory response induced by LPS or HSP60 treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314855	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314855	stress
Brazilian journal of medical and biological research = Revista brasileira de pesquisas medicas e biologicas	Age-related changes and effects of regular low-intensity exercise on gait, balance, and oxidative biomarkers in the spinal cord of Wistar rats.	The present study aimed to analyze age-related changes to motor coordination, balance, spinal cord oxidative biomarkers in 3-, 6-, 18-, 24-, and 30-month-old rats. The effects of low-intensity exercise on these parameters were also analyzed in 6-, 18-, and 24-month-old rats. Body weight, blood glucose, total cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol were assessed for all rats. The soleus muscle weight/body weight ratio was used to estimate skeletal muscle mass loss. Body weight increased until 24 months; only 30-month-old rats exhibited decreased blood glucose and increased total cholesterol and HDL cholesterol. The soleus muscle weight/body weight ratio increased until 18 months, followed by a small decrease in old rats. Exercise did not change any of these parameters. Stride length and step length increased from adult to middle age, but decreased at old age. Stride width increased while the sciatic functional index decreased in old rats. Performance in the balance beam test declined with age. While gait did not change, balance improved after exercise. Aging increased superoxide anion generation, hydrogen peroxide levels, total antioxidant capacity, and superoxide dismutase activity while total thiol decreased and lipid hydroperoxides did not change. Exercise did not significantly change this scenario. Thus, aging increased oxidative stress in the spinal cord, which may be associated with age-induced changes in gait and balance. Regular low-intensity exercise is a good alternative for improving age-induced changes in balance, while beneficial effects on gait and spinal cord oxidative biomarkers cannot be ruled out because of the small number of rats investigated (n=5 or 6/group).	2019	eng	Journal Article	Brazil	31314852	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314852	stress
PloS one	The role of oxidant stress and gender in the erythrocyte arginine metabolism and ammonia management in patients with type 2 diabetes.	We found evidence of a putative role of RBC as an extra-hepatic mechanism for controlling serum levels of nitrogen-related metabolites, which differs according to gender in healthy subjects. Type 2 DM promotes higher ammonia, citrulline, and MDA blood levels, which culminate in a loss of the differential management of nitrogen-related metabolites seen in healthy women and men.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314811	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314811	stress
PloS one	Mesolithic projectile variability along the southern North Sea basin (NW Europe): Hunter-gatherer responses to repeated climate change at the beginning of the Holocene.	This paper investigates how former hunter-gatherers living along the southern North Sea coast in NW Europe adapted to long-term and short-term climatic and environmental changes at the beginning of the Holocene. It is argued that contemporaneous hunter-gatherers repeatedly changed their hunting equipment in response to changing climate and environment, not just for functional reasons but mainly driven by socio-territorial considerations. Based on a Bayesian analysis of 122 critically selected radiocarbon dates a broad chronological correlation is demonstrated between rapid changes in the design and technology of stone projectiles and short but abrupt cooling events, occurring at 10.3, 9.3 and 8.2 ka cal BP. Combined with the rapid sea level rises and increased wildfires these climatic events probably impacted the lifeways of hunter-gatherers in such a way that they increasingly faced resource stress and competition, forcing them to invest in the symbolic defense of their social territories.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314774	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314774	stress
PloS one	Association of MAOA genetic variants and resilience with psychosocial stress: A longitudinal study of Syrian refugees.	Early childhood trauma can have profound and lifelong effects on adult mental health and psychosocial wellbeing. Nevertheless, responses to trauma are highly variable. Genetic variants may help explain variation in responses to trauma by identifying alleles that associate with changes in mental health measures. Protective factors, such as resilience, likely also play an important role in responses to trauma. The effects of genetic variants, in combination with protective factors, on psychosocial health are not well understood, particularly in non-Western contexts. In this study, we test the relative influence of genetic variants of monoamine oxidase A (MAOA, a gene proposed to influence the impact of childhood trauma on adult violence and antisocial behavior), levels of resilience, and exposure to traumatic events on psychosocial stress and mental health trajectories over time. We use data from a cohort of 12-18-year-old Syrian refugees who were forcibly displaced to neighboring Jordan (n = 399). DNA samples and survey data on trauma exposure, resilience (CYRM-12), and psychosocial stress were collected at three time points: baseline, ~13 weeks, and ~48 weeks. Using multilevel models, we identified an association of MAOA variant, in males only, with symptom scores of psychosocial stress on the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) over time (p = 8.1 x 10-4). We also found that resilience is strongly associated with PSS (p = 7.9 x 10-9), underscoring the importance of protective factors in influencing levels of psychosocial stress. Furthermore, there was an additive effect wherein the sharpest reductions in perceived psychosocial stress are seen in low-activity MAOA males with low trauma exposure or high resilience levels. Our results highlight the value of studies that integrate genetic and psychosocial factors to better understand complex phenotypes, such as responses to trauma in contexts of high trauma exposure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314763	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314763	stress
PloS one	CC chemokine CCL1 receptor CCR8 mediates conversion of mesenchymal stem cells to embryoid bodies expressing FOXP3+CCR8+ regulatory T cells.	Embryoid bodies (EBs) are three dimensional aggregates of pluripotent stem cells primarily used to investigate morphogenesis and cell toxicity, are also attractive tools in regenerative medicine. While embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and induced pluripotent cells (IPSCs) have been shown to form EBs in mouse, primate and humans, EB formation have not been previously demonstrated in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Here we show that rat MSCs form EBs; which express regulatory T cell (Treg) marker Foxp3 and CC chemokine CCL1 receptor CCR8. We show a novel method for formation of EBs from MSCs under stress and demonstrate that the induction of FoxP3+ CCR8+ EBs is dependent upon CCL1 gradients which mediate cell proliferation, migration and invasion of mTregs. The identification of EBs and novel FoxP3+ CCR8+ regulatory T cells (mTregs) for selective conversion and isolation of bone marrow derived MSCs offers novel avenues for research, diagnosis and treatment.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314754	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314754	stress
The Permanente journal	Are Perceived Stress and Cytokine Genotypes Clinically Feasible as Predictors of Psychoneuroimmune Symptoms in Advanced Cancer?	Perceived stress performed better than cytokine genotypes as a clinical predictor of PNI symptoms in this small-scale study. Assessing perceived stress is an easy and low-cost approach that can be used to identify patients at high risk of PNI symptom development.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314714	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314714	stress
Substance abuse	The relationship between negative trauma-related cognitions and psychosocial functioning in veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder and alcohol use disorder.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314701	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314701	stress
LGBT health	Comparing the Mental Health of Sexual Minority and Heterosexual Cancer Survivors: A Systematic Review.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314662	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314662	stress
Plant signaling & behavior	Molecular mechanism of plant stress hormone methyl jasmonate for its anti-inflammatory activity.	Plant stress hormones (Phytohormones/PTH) are abundantly present in numerous vascular plants. Several classes of plant stress hormones like auxins (AU) & gibberellins (GA), cytokinins (CK), abscisic acid (ABA), ethylene (ET), salicylic acid (SA), jasmonates (JA), brassinosteroids (BR) and strigolactones are synthesized within specialized plant cells. Among them, jasmonate are prominent class of stress hormones involved in survival of plants in stressful conditions. Methyl jasmonate (MeJA) is ester of jasmonic acid is extensively studied for its potential clinical benefits. MeJA is used as an effective antimicrobial agent, food preservative, antioxidant in food and agricultural sectors. The clinical benefits of MeJA have been related to their prominent interactions with inflammatory NF-κB pathways, inhibition of enzymes, gene expression for synthesis of inflammatory mediators, signaling molecules, oxidative stress and modulation of pain perception/nociceptive responses. The objective of the present review is to provide an cohesive relation of MeJA in inflammation with reference to past and recent in-vivo and in-vitro investigations in broad perspectives.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314659	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314659	stress
Medical teacher	Predicting future performance in medical students. A longitudinal study examining the effects of resilience on low and higher performing students.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314633	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314633	stress
International journal of radiation biology	Radioprotective effect of ethanolic extract of 	Evaluation of the modulatory effect of ethanolic extract of 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314632	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314632	stress
Journal of medical engineering & technology	A robust algorithm for heart rate variability time series artefact correction using novel beat classification.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314618	stress
Current eye research	Stannioalcin-1 is a modifier of oxygen induced retinopathy severity.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314602	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314602	stress
Archives of physiology and biochemistry	Hepatoprotective effects of ethyl pyruvate against carbon tetrachloride-induced oxidative stress, biochemical and histological alterations in rats.	This study investigated the protective effects of ethyl pyruvate (EP) against carbon tetrachloride (CCl	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314597	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314597	stress
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	Maternal fructose-induced oxidative stress occurs 	Fructose consumption is rising globally, but maternal high fructose intake might adversely affect offspring. Our previous report demonstrated that excess maternal fructose intake impairs hippocampal function in offspring, indicating that the hippocampi of offspring are highly sensitive to maternal fructose. Here, we examined the effect of maternal high fructose on mitochondrial physiology and uncoupling protein (UCP) expression. Rat dams received a 20% fructose solution during gestation and lactation. Immediately after weaning, offspring hippocampi were isolated. Maternal high fructose consumption attenuated the mitochondrial O	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314594	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314594	stress
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	None	During endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress conditions, an adaptive signaling network termed the unfolded protein response (UPR) is activated. The UPR's function is to increase ER protein-folding capacity in order to attenuate ER stress, restore ER homeostasis, and, most importantly, promote cell survival. X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) is one component of the UPR and is a proadaptive transcription factor that is subject to transcriptional, post-transcriptional, and post-translational control. In the present study, we identified a post-transcriptional mechanism mediated by 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314593	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314593	stress
Journal of alternative and complementary medicine (New York, N.Y.)	Group-Based Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Nurses and Nurse Aides Working in Long-Term Care Residential Settings.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314564	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314564	stress
American journal of physiology. Regulatory, integrative and comparative physiology	The Vitamin D-Folate Hypothesis in Human Vascular Health.	The vitamin D-folate hypothesis has been proposed as an explanation for the evolution of human skin pigmentation. According to this hypothesis, a darkened skin pigment was adapted by early human populations living in equatorial Africa to protect against photodegradation of bioavailable folate by ultraviolet radiation (UVR). As humans moved away from the equator to more northern latitudes and occupied regions of lower UVR exposure and greater seasonal variation, however, depigmentation occurred to allow for adequate biosynthesis of vitamin D. Vitamin D and folate are both recognized for their evolutionary importance in healthy pregnancy and early childhood development. More recently, evidence has emerged demonstrating the importance of both vitamin D and folate in vascular health via their effects in reducing oxidative stress and improving nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Thus, populations with darkened skin pigmentation may be at elevated risk of vascular dysfunction and cardiovascular disease in low UVR environments due to hypovitaminosis D; particularly important as darkly-pigmented African Americans represent an at-risk population for cardiovascular disease. Conversely, lightly-pigmented populations in high UVR environments may be at risk of deleterious vascular effects of UVR-induced folate degradation. The focus of this review is to explore the currently available literature regarding the potential role of UVR in vascular health via its differential effects on vitamin D and folate metabolism, as well as the interaction between skin pigmentation, genetics, and environment in modulating the vascular influence of UVR exposure.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314544	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314544	stress
Journal of the American Chemical Society	Dinitrogen Fixation and Reduction by Ta3N3H0,1- Cluster Anions at Room Temperature: Hydrogen-Assisted Enhancement of Reactivity.	Dinitrogen activation and reduction is one of the most challenging and important subjects in chemistry. Herein, we report the N2 binding and reduction at the well-defined Ta3N3H- and Ta3N3- gas-phase clusters by using mass spec-trometry (MS), anion photoelectron spectroscopy (PES), and quantum-chemical calculations. The PES and calculation results show clear evidence that N2 can be adsorbed and completely activated by Ta3N3H- and Ta3N3- clusters, yielding to the products Ta3N5H- and Ta3N5-, but the reactivity of Ta3N3H- is five times higher than that of the dehydrogenated Ta3N3- clusters. The Detailed mechanistic investigations further indicate that a dissociative mechanism dominates the N2 activation reactions mediated by Ta3N3H- and Ta3N3-; two and three Ta atoms are active sites and also electron do-nors for the N2 reduction, respectively. Although the hydrogen atom in Ta3N3H- is not directly involved in the reaction, its very presence modifies the charge distribution and the geometry of Ta3N3H-, which is crucial to increase the reactiv-ity. The mechanisms revealed in this gas-phase study stress the fundamental rules for N2 activation and important role of transition metals as active sites as well as the new significant role of metal hydride bonds in the process of N2 reduc-tion, which provides molecular-level insights into the rational design of tantalum nitride-based catalysts for N2 fixa-tion and activation or NH3 synthesis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314515	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314515	stress
Traffic (Copenhagen, Denmark)	Detecting and quantifying stress granules in tissues of multicellular organisms with the Obj.MPP analysis tool.	Stress Granules (SGs) are macromolecular assemblies induced by stress and composed of proteins and mRNAs stalled in translation initiation. SGs play an important role in the response to stress and in the modulation of signaling pathways. Furthermore, these structures are related to the pathological ribonucleoprotein (RNP) aggregates found in neurodegenerative disease contexts, highlighting the need to understand how they are formed and recycled in normal and pathological contexts. Although genetically tractable multicellular organisms have been key in identifying modifiers of RNP aggregate toxicity, in vivo analysis of SG properties and regulation has lagged behind, largely due to the difficulty of detecting SG from images of intact tissues. Here, we describe the object detector software Obj.MPP and show how it overcomes the limits of classical object analyzers to extract the properties of SGs from wide-field and confocal images of respectively C. elegans and Drosophila tissues. We demonstrate that Obj.MPP enables the identification of genes modulating the assembly of endogenous and pathological SGs, and thus that it will be useful in the context of future genetic screens and in vivo studies. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314165	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314165	stress
Cancer science	Lipid peroxidation increases hydrogen peroxide permeability leading to cell death in cancer cell lines that lack mtDNA.	Lipid peroxidation is a cause of cell and tissue injury. An important product of plasma membrane lipid peroxidation is HNE. We have established mtDNA-depleted ρ	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31314163	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314163	stress
Sleep	Effect of continuous positive airway pressure on inflammatory, antioxidant, and depression biomarkers in women with obstructive sleep apnea: a randomized controlled trial.	NCT02047071.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314107	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314107	stress
Endocrinology	Basal Autophagy Deficiency Causes Thyroid Follicular Epithelial Cell Death in Mice.	Autophagy is a catabolic process that involves the degradation of cellular components through the lysosomal machinery, re-locating nutrients from unnecessary processes to more pivotal processes required for survival. It has been reported that systemic disruption of Atg5 or 7 gene, a component of autophagy, is lethal, and that its tissue-specific disruption causes tissue degeneration in several organs. However, the functional significance of autophagy in the thyroid glands remained unknown. Our preliminary data imply the possible involvement of dysfunctional autophagy in radiation-induced thyroid carcinogenesis. Therefore, we evaluated the effect of Atg5 gene knockout on the thyroid morphology and function. To this end, Atg5flox/flox mice were crossed with TPO-Cre mice, yielding the thyroid follicular epithelial cell (thyrocyte)-specific ATG5 deficient mic (Atg5thyr-KO/KO). Atg5 gene knockout was confirmed by a lack of ATG5 expression, and disruption of autophagy was demonstrated by a decrease in LC3-II puncta and an increase in p62. Atg5thyr-KO/KO mice were born normally, and thyroid morphology, thyroid weights, and serum T4 and TSH levels were almost normal at 4 months. However, at 8 and 12 months, although thyroid function was still normal, a decrease in the number of thyrocytes, and an increase in TUNEL+-thyrocytes (i.e., apoptotic cells) were observed in Atg5thyr-KO/KO mice. Number of irregularly shaped follicles (gourd-shaped) was also increased. Excess oxidative stress was indicated by increased 8-OHdG and 53BP1 foci in Atg5thyr-KO/KO mice. These data demonstrate that thyrocytes gradually undergo degradation/cell death in the absence of basal levels of autophagy, indicating that autophagy is critical for the quality control of thyrocytes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31314096	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314096	stress
Acta biochimica et biophysica Sinica	Exposure to jet lag aggravates depression-like behaviors and age-related phenotypes in rats subject to chronic corticosterone.	Our previous finding demonstrated that chronic corticosterone (CORT) may be involved in mediating the pathophysiology of premature aging in rats. Frequent jet lag increases the risk for many diseases, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, and is associated with the aging processes. However, the effect of jet lag on CORT-induced depression and its association with aging phenotypes remain unclear. In this study, the rats were exposed to both CORT and jet lag treatment, and the differences were analyzed and compared to rats with single CORT treatment. Our results showed that jet lag treatment aggravated CORT-induced depression-like behavior evidenced by sucrose intake test, forced swimming test, and open field test. Additionally, this treatment aggravated the shortening of telomeres, which possibly resulted in decreased telomerase activity, and downregulated the expression of telomere-binding factor 2 (TRF2) and telomerase reverse transcriptase compared to that in CORT rats, as revealed by quantitative real-time-polymerase chain reaction and western blot analysis, respectively. The shortening of telomeres may have been caused by increased oxidative stress, which was associated with the inhibition of sirtuin 3. Exposure to jet lag also aggravated the degeneration of mitochondrial functions, as shown by the decreases in the mRNA expression of COX1, ND1, and Tfam. Our findings provide physiological evidence that jet lag exposure may worsen stress-induced depression and age-related abnormalities.	2019	eng	Journal Article	China	31314053	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31314053	stress
American journal of physiology. Renal physiology	Analysis of Continence Reflexes by Dynamic Urethral Pressure Recordings in a Rat Sress Urinary Incontinence Model induced by Multiple Simulated Birth Traumas.	This study evaluated the real-time changes in urethral pressure during the storage phase using a rat model with stress urinary incontinence (SUI) induced by simulated multiple birth traumas, and investigated the relationship between urethral continence function and dynamic parameters associated with the changes in urethral pressure. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into sham and 3-times vaginal distention (VD) groups. After transection of T8-9 spinal cord, simultaneous bladder and urethral pressure recordings were performed during intravesical pressure elevation. Then, urodynamic parameters such as leak point pressure (LPP), urethral baseline pressure (UBP), maximum urethral pressure (MUP), the MUP-UBP differential (dUP) during intravesical pressure elevation, the bladder pressure when urethral contraction begins (Puc), and the bladder pressure at bladder neck opening (Pno) were measured and compared. Compared with sham group, LPP, UBP, dUP, MUP, Puc, and Pno were significantly decreased in VD group. The pressure differences between LPP and Pno (LPP-Pno), and between LPP and UBP (LPP-UBP) were also significantly different in two groups. However, the difference values of LPP and MUP (LPP-MUP) or Pno and UBP (Pno-UBP) were not altered after VD. Our new methods of simultaneous recordings of dynamic changes in bladder and urethral pressures are useful to fully evaluate the functional alterations in the urethral continence function in the SUI model induced by multiple VD. Moreover, LPP-UBP values, which corresponds to Valsalva LPP (VLPP)-maximum urethral closure pressure (MUCP) in clinical urodynamics, would be useful to evaluate the impaired urethral continence function after simulated birth traumas in animal models.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313954	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313954	stress
Journal of medicinal food	Phytochemical/Antioxidant Properties and Individual/Synergistic Actions of 	Medicinal plants are known by pharmacological relevance and were used for long time to prevent/treat numerous gastrointestinal (GI) disorders. The current study focuses on the phytochemical/antioxidant characteristics of sage aqueous extract (SAE), as well as its pharmacological actions on altering motor function in the intestine and related disruptions. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313944	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313944	stress
Journal of proteome research	Systemic and local metabolic alterations in sleep deprivation-induced stress: A multi-platform mass- spectrometry-based lipidomics and metabolomics approach.	Sleep deprivation (SD) is known to be associated with metabolic disorders and chronic diseases. Complex metabolic alterations induced by SD at the omics scale and the associated biomarker candidates have been proposed. However, in vivo systemic and local metabolic shift patterns of the metabolome and lipidome in acute and chronic partial SD models remain to be elucidated. In the present study, the serum, hypothalamus, and hippocampus CA1 of sleep-deprived rats (SD rats) from acute and chronic sleep restriction models were analyzed using three different omics platforms for the discovery and mechanistic assessment of systemic and local SD-induced dysregulated metabolites. We found a similar pattern of systemic metabolome alterations between two models, for which the area under the curve (AUC) of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves was AUC = 0.813 and 0.836 with the pseudotargeted and untargeted metabolomics approach, respectively. However, SD-induced systemic lipidome alterations were significantly different and appeared to be model-dependent (AUC = 0.374). Comprehensive pathway analysis of the altered lipidome and metabolome in the hypothalamus indicated the abnormal behavior of eight metabolic and lipid metabolic pathways. The metabolism of the hippocampus CA1 was subtle in two SD models. Collectively, these results extend our understanding of the quality of sleep and suggest metabolic targets in developing diagnostic biomarkers for better SD control.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313932	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313932	stress
ACS chemical neuroscience	PromISR-6, a Guanabenz Analogue, Improves Cellular Survival in an Experimental Model of Huntington's Disease.	Guanabenz (GBZ), an α2-adrenergic agonist, demonstrated off-target effects that restored protein homeostasis and ameliorated pathobiology in experimental models of neurodegenerative disease. However, GBZ did not directly activate the integrated stress response (ISR) and its proposed mode of action remains controversial. Utilizing an iterative in silico screen of over 10,000 GBZ analogues, we analyzed 432 representative compounds for cytotoxicity in Wild-type, PPP1R15A-/- and PPP1R15B-/- mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Nine compounds clustering into three functional groups were studied in detail using cell biological and biochemical assays. Our studies demonstrated that PromISR-6 as a potent GBZ analogue that selectively activated ISR, eliciting sustained eIF2α phosphorylation. ISRIB, an ISR inhibitor, counteracted PromISR-6-mediated translational inhibition and reduction in intracellular mutant Huntingtin aggregates. Reduced protein synthesis combined with PromISR-6-stimulated autophagic clearance made PromISR-6, the most efficacious GBZ analogue to reduce Huntingtin aggregates and promote survival in a cellular model of Huntington's disease.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313908	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313908	stress
Brain and behavior	Fear renewal activates cyclic adenosine monophosphate signaling in the dentate gyrus.	These findings demonstrated that fear renewal activated cAMP signaling in the DG through decreased PDE4 activity. Because of the role of cAMP signaling in the acquisition or retrieval of fear conditioning and encoding of extinction, it is speculated that initial learning and extinction may have similarities in molecular mechanism, especially fear retrieval and fear renewal may share cAMP signaling pathway in the DG.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313894	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313894	stress
Veterinary medicine and science	Effects of a nutritional supplement in dogs affected by osteoarthritis.	Osteoarthritis is a form of chronic joint inflammation caused by the deterioration of the joint cartilage, accompanied by chronic pain, lameness and stiffness, particularly after prolonged activity. Alternative treatments of canine osteoarthritis would be desirable and, recently nutraceuticals, have been proposed for this purpose. Twenty cross breed adult dogs affected by osteoarthritis were enrolled and equally divided into two groups (control vs. experimental). The nutritional supplement (Dynamopet srl, Verone, Italy) was administered for 90 days to the dogs of the experimental group in order to evaluate its metabolic and locomotor effects. All the clinical signs (lameness, pain on manipulation and palpation, range of motion and joint swelling) significantly (p < 0.01) improved during the trial as regards the experimental group. This group showed a significantly lower joint score than the control group (mean value 7.40 vs. 3.80). With regard to haematology, the mean corpuscular volume resulted significantly (p < 0.01) higher in the experimental group, i.e. alkaline phosphatase, cholesterol and triglycerides values decreased and were significantly (p < 0.01) lower than the control one, thus suggesting an improvement in bone remodelling and lipid metabolism. A decrease in the reactive oxygen metabolites and an increase in the biological antioxidant potential demonstrated an improvement in oxidative stress during the trial in the experimental group compare to the control group. Interleukins 6 decreased in the experimental group, while interleukins 10 resulted in the opposite trend. Moreover, the administration of up to 3 months of the studied supplement was well tolerated in the dogs and caused no adverse effects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313893	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313893	stress
EMBO molecular medicine	Parkin the bus to manage stress.	Autophagy, the process by which damaged or potentially cytotoxic cytosolic components are removed and destroyed by lysosomes, occurs to varying extents in all cells. Mitophagy describes an autophagic response that specifically targets damaged cytotoxic mitochondria for removal. This aggressive defense-first policy ("parking the bus" in footballing terms) serves to protect the intracellular environment from cytotoxic mitochondrial components and maintain intracellular homeostasis. While mitophagy pathways have been extensively studied (Harper et al, 2018), precisely how the selective removal of a damaged mitochondrion is achieved in healthy cells, as well as in cells exposed to high oxidative stress conditions, remains unclear. Work from Lee and colleagues (Lee et al, 2019) has evaluated the molecular basis of mitophagy in platelets and has outlined some new molecular events that help control this process.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313883	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313883	stress
Hippocampus	Interactive effects of stress reactivity and rapid eye movement sleep theta activity on emotional memory formation.	Sleep and stress independently enhance emotional memory consolidation. In particular, theta oscillations (4-7 Hz) during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep increase coherence in an emotional memory network (i.e., hippocampus, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex) and enhance emotional memory. However, little is known about how stress during learning might interact with subsequent REM theta activity to affect emotional memory. In the current study, we examined whether the relationship between REM theta activity and emotional memory differs as a function of pre-encoding stress exposure and reactivity. Participants underwent a psychosocial stressor (the Trier Social Stress Task; n = 32) or a comparable control task (n = 32) prior to encoding. Task-evoked cortisol reactivity was assessed by salivary cortisol rise from pre- to post-stressor, and participants in the stress condition were additionally categorized as high or low cortisol responders via a median split. During incidental encoding, participants studied 150 line drawings of negative, neutral, and positive images, followed by the complete color photo. All participants then slept overnight in the lab with polysomnographic recording. The next day, they were given a surprise recognition memory task. Results showed that memory was better for emotional relative to neutral information. Critically, these findings were observed only in the stress condition. No emotional memory benefit was observed in the control condition. In stressed participants, REM theta power significantly predicted memory for emotional information, specifically for positive items. This relationship was observed only in high cortisol responders. For low responders and controls, there was no relationship between REM theta and memory of any valence. These findings provide evidence that elevated stress at encoding, and accompanying changes in neuromodulators such as cortisol, may interact with theta activity during REM sleep to promote selective consolidation of emotional information.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313866	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313866	stress
Archiv der Pharmazie	1,3,5,8-Tetrahydroxy-9H-xanthen-9-one exerts its antiageing effect through the regulation of stress-response genes and the MAPK signaling pathway.	The antioxidative effects of 30 xanthone derivatives (XDs) (XD-n, n = 1-30) in HepG2 cells were evaluated by the cellular antioxidant activity assay. Results showed that all XDs were antioxidants and 1,3,5,8-tetrahydroxy-9H-xanthen-9-one (XD-2) was the most active antioxidant. The all-oxygenated substituted xanthones extended the lifespan of wild-type N2 nematodes under normal culture conditions and XD-2 was the best one. XD-2 eliminated excessive intracellular reactive oxygen species and enhanced the expression levels and activities of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase. XD-2 inhibited the H	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313862	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313862	stress
Glia	Persistent increase in ventral hippocampal long-term potentiation by juvenile stress: A role for astrocytic glutamine synthetase.	A traumatic childhood is among the most important risk factors for developing stress-related psychopathologies such as posttraumatic stress disorder or depression later in life. However, despite the proven role of astrocytes in regulating transmitter release and synaptic plasticity, the contribution of astrocytic transmitter metabolism to such stress-induced psychopathologies is currently not understood. In rodents, childhood adversity can be modeled by juvenile stress exposure, resulting in increased anxiety, and impaired coping with stress in adulthood. We describe that such juvenile stress in rats, regardless of additional stress in adulthood, leads to reduced synaptic efficacy in the ventral CA1 (vCA1) Schaffer collaterals, but increased long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission after high-frequency stimulation. We tested whether the glutamate-glutamine-cycle guides the lasting changes on plasticity observed after juvenile stress by blocking the astrocytic glutamate-degrading enzyme, glutamine synthetase (GS). Indeed, the pharmacological inhibition of GS by methionine sulfoximine in slices from naïve rats mimics the effect of juvenile stress on vCA1-LTP, while supplying glutamine is sufficient to normalize the LTP. Assessing steady-state mRNA levels in the vCA1 stratum radiatum reveals distinct shifts in the expression of GS, astrocytic glutamate, and glutamine transporters after stress in juvenility, adulthood, or combined juvenile/adult stress. While GS mRNA expression levels are lastingly reduced after juvenile stress, GS protein levels are maintained stable. Together our results suggest a critical role for astrocytes and the glutamate-glutamine cycle in mediating long-term effects of juvenile stress on plasticity in the vCA1, a region associated with anxiety and emotional memory processing.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313857	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313857	stress
Alimentary pharmacology & therapeutics	Review article: the incidence and risk factors for irritable bowel syndrome in population-based studies.	Incidence rates were generally lower than previous estimates reflecting physician-diagnosed IBS. The results highlight the importance of other medical and psychosocial problems in the onset of IBS in addition to prior gastrointestinal infections. Aetiological research could be enhanced by studying the underlying mechanisms relating to all of these risk factors.	2019	eng	Review	England	31313850	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313850	stress
Journal of child psychology and psychiatry, and allied disciplines	Commentary: I thought I was going to die and the world is not safe-how to help children recover after trauma? Reflections on Meiser-Stedman et al. (2019).	Children all over the world experience exposure to trauma. Why do only some young people have significant traumatic stress symptoms in the days and weeks immediately post-trauma while others do not, and why do some youth then recover without treatment while others go on to suffer from persistent PTSD? This important question is examined in a comprehensive study by Meiser-Stedman et al., (2019). In a sample of single-event trauma exposed youth, they investigate the role cognitive processes may have in shaping early reactions and in maintaining post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) over time. For the onset of PTSS, perceived threat and feeling overwhelmed and confused during the traumatic event was associated with significant PTSS. For the maintenance of PTSS, poorly elaborated, sensory-based memories, dissociation, rumination, and negative appraisals were associated with higher PTSS. The newly revised International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies' guidelines for the prevention and treatment of PTSS found no strong evidence to recommend any of the evaluated preventive or early intervention programs. This commentary highlights how understanding different trajectories for the onset and maintenance of post-traumatic stress may inform our development of prevention and early intervention strategies. Cognitive processes seem to play an important role in the development of PTSS but these may play out differently in youth exposed to single events and youth with interpersonal trauma experiences. Knowledge on memory processing, meaning making, the role of social support and maladaptive cognitions need to be implemented in systems of trauma-informed care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313840	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313840	stress
The EMBO journal	A conserved RNA seed-pairing domain directs small RNA-mediated stress resistance in enterobacteria.	Small regulatory RNAs (sRNAs) are crucial components of many stress response systems. The envelope stress response (ESR) of Gram-negative bacteria is a paradigm for sRNA-mediated stress management and involves, among other factors, the alternative sigma factor E (σ	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313835	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313835	stress
Journal of child psychology and psychiatry, and allied disciplines	Psychological and psychosocial treatments for children and young people with post-traumatic stress disorder: a network meta-analysis.	Trauma-focused cognitive behavioural therapy, in particular individual forms, appears to be most effective in the management of PTSD in youth. EMDR is effective but to a lesser extent. Supportive counselling does not appear to be effective. Results suggest a large positive effect for emotional freedom technique, child-parent psychotherapy, combined TF-CBT/parent training, and meditation, but further research is needed to confirm these findings as they were based on very limited evidence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313834	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313834	stress
Journal of cellular physiology	Novel oral transforming growth factor-β signaling inhibitor potently inhibits postsurgical adhesion band formation.	Here, we have investigated the therapeutic potency of EW-7197, a transforming growth factor-β type I receptor kinase inhibitor, against postsurgical adhesion band formation. Our results showed that this pharmacological inhibitor prevented the frequency and the stability of adhesion bands in mice model. We have also shown that downregulation of proinflammatory cytokines, reduce submucosal edema, attenuation of proinflammatory cell infiltration, inhibition of oxidative stress, decrease in excessive collagen deposition, and suppression of profibrotic genes at the site of surgery are some of the mechanisms by which EW-7197 elicits its protective responses against adhesion band formation. These results clearly suggest that EW-7197 has novel therapeutic properties against postsurgical adhesion band formation with clinically translational potential of inhibiting key pathological responses of inflammation and fibrosis in postsurgery patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313829	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313829	stress
Current opinion in psychiatry	Eating disorders and posttraumatic stress disorder.	PTSD is a common comorbidity in patients with eating disorders and impacts the severity of their eating disorder symptoms. However, there is little research into concurrent treatments for PTSD and eating disorders. Difficulties in emotional regulation may be a common mechanism in both disorders.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313708	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313708	stress
Current opinion in nephrology and hypertension	Cullin-Ring ubiquitin ligases in kidney health and disease.	Cullins form a large and diverse family of E3 ubiquitin ligases that are likely to have many important functions in the kidney.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313673	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313673	stress
Autophagy	Shedding light on autophagy coordinating with cell wall integrity signaling to govern pathogenicity of 	Cells are faced with various stresses during their growth and development, and autophagy is a degradative process in which cells can break down their own components to recycle macromolecules and provide energy under these stresses. For pathogenic fungi that utilize cell wall as the first barrier against external stress, the cell wall integrity (CWI) pathway also provides an essential role in responding to these stresses. However, the specific connection between autophagy and CWI remains elusive in either the model fungi including budding yeast 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313634	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313634	stress
Journal of interpersonal violence	Parental Factors as Predictors of Dating Violence Among Latinx Adolescent Mothers.	The purpose of our study was to examine how parental stress and coparenting relationship quality were related to dating violence perpetration and victimization among 114 Latinx adolescent mothers. We hypothesized that higher levels of parental stress and lower coparenting quality would be associated with increased dating violence perpetration and victimization. Prior to running a path analysis to test our hypotheses, we examined how frequently the Latinx adolescent mothers in our sample reported perpetrating at least one act of psychological or physical abuse against their partner in the past month. We found that 84.3% of the mothers in our study had perpetrated at least one act of violence against their partner in the past month and 74.7% reported they had been the victim of at least one act of violence by their partner in the past month. After accounting for frequency of contact with the father of their child, we found Latinx adolescent mothers were more likely to perpetrate abuse against, as well as be the victim of abuse by, their partner if they had a lower quality coparenting relationship. However, parental stress was not associated with dating violence perpetration or victimization after accounting for frequency of contact. Our findings show the importance of the quality of the coparenting relationship, above and beyond parental stress, as a predictor of dating violence victimization 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313619	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313619	stress
American journal of physiology. Lung cellular and molecular physiology	The relationship between DJ-1 and S100A8 in human primary alveolar type II cells in emphysema.	Pulmonary emphysema is characterized by alveolar type II (ATII) cell death, destruction of alveolar wall septa, and irreversible airflow limitation. Cigarette smoke induces oxidative stress and is the main risk factor for this disease development. ATII cells isolated from non-smokers, smokers, and patients with emphysema were used for this study. High apoptosis was detected in ATII cells obtained from individuals with this disease. DJ-1 and S100A8 have cytoprotective functions against oxidative stress-induced cell injury. Reduced DJ-1 and S100A8 interaction was found in ATII cells in patients with emphysema by immunoprecipitation and Western blotting. The molecular function of S100A8 was determined by an analysis of the oxidation status of its cysteine residues using chemoselective probes. Decreased S100A8 sulfination was observed in emphysema patients. In addition, its lower levels correlated with higher cell apoptosis induced by cigarette smoke extract 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313618	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313618	stress
American journal of physiology. Lung cellular and molecular physiology	The role of DJ-1 in human primary alveolar type II cell injury induced by e-cigarette aerosol.	The alveolus participates in gas exchange, which can be impaired by environmental factors and toxins. There is an increase in using electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes); however, their effect on human primary alveolar epithelial cells is unknown. Human lungs were obtained from non-smoker organ donors to isolate alveolar type II (ATII) cells. ATII cells produce and secrete pulmonary surfactant, restore the epithelium after damage and their metabolism highly depends on mitochondrial function. Our data indicates that human ATII cell exposure to e-cigarette aerosol increased IL-8 levels and induced DNA damage and apoptosis. We also studied the cytoprotective effect of DJ-1 against ATII cell injury. DJ-1 knockdown in human primary ATII cells sensitized cells to mitochondrial dysfunction as detected by high mitochondrial superoxide production, decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and calcium elevation. DJ-1 KO mice were more susceptible to ATII cell apoptosis and lung injury induced by e-cigarette aerosol compared to wild-type mice. Regulation of the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) is important for mitochondrial function and protection against oxidative stress. Major subunits of the OXPHOS system are encoded by both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA. We found dysregulation of OXPHOS complexes in DJ-1 KO mice after exposure to e-cigarette aerosol, which could disrupt the nuclear/mitochondrial stoichiometry, resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction. Together, our results indicate that DJ-1 deficiency sensitizes ATII cells to damage induced by e-cigarette aerosol leading to lung injury.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313616	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313616	stress
Brain injury	There's no cure for brain injury: work-related stress in brain injury rehabilitation professionals.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313612	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313612	stress
Cell transplantation	Nanomedicine-based Curcumin Approach Improved ROS Damage in Best Dystrophy-specific Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells.	Best dystrophy (BD), also termed best vitelliform macular dystrophy (BVMD), is a juvenile-onset form of macular degeneration and can cause central visual loss. Unfortunately, there is no clear definite therapy for BD or improving the visual function on this progressive disease. The human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) system has been recently applied as an effective tool for genetic consultation and chemical drug screening. In this study, we developed patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (BD-iPSCs) from BD patient-derived dental pulp stromal cells and then differentiated BD-iPSCs into retinal pigment epithelial cells (BD-RPEs). BD-RPEs were used as an expandable platform for 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313605	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313605	stress
Cellular physiology and biochemistry : international journal of experimental cellular physiology, biochemistry, and pharmacology	Glycyrrhizic Acid Prevents Oxidative Stress Mediated DNA Damage Response through Modulation of Autophagy in Ultraviolet-B-Irradiated Human Primary Dermal Fibroblasts.	The present study links autophagy induction by GA as the main mechanism in the prevention of DNA damage and provides a mechanistic basis for the photoprotective effect of GA and suggests that GA can be potentially developed as a promising agent against UV-B induced skin photo-damage.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313540	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313540	stress
Stem cells translational medicine	Concise Review: Neuronal Stem Cell-Drug Interactions: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.	Stem cell therapy is a promising treatment option for neurodegenerative diseases that mostly affect geriatric patients who often suffer from comorbidities requiring multiple medications. However, not much is known about the interactions between stem cells and drugs. Here, we focus on the potential interactions between drugs used to treat the comorbidities or sequelae of neurodegenerative diseases and neuronal stem cells to reveal potential effects on drug safety and efficacy. To determine the potential effects of drugs frequently used in geriatric patients (analgesic, antibiotic, antidepressant, antidiabetic, antihyperlipidemic, and antihypertensive drugs) on neuronal stem cell differentiation and proliferation, we systematically searched PubMed to identify nonreview articles published in English in peer-reviewed journals between January 1, 1991, and June 7, 2018. We identified 5,954 publications, of which 214 were included. Only 62 publications provided the complete data sets required for meta-analysis. We found that antidepressants stimulated neuronal stem cell proliferation but not differentiation under physiologic conditions and increased the proliferation of stem cells in the context of stress. Several other potential interactions were identified, but the limited number of available data sets precludes robust conclusions. Although available data were in most cases insufficient to perform robust meta-analysis, a clear interaction between antidepressants and neuronal stem cells was identified. We reveal potential other interactions requiring further experimental investigation. We recommend that future research addresses such interactions and investigates the best combination of pharmacological interventions and neuronal stem cell treatments for more efficient and safer patient care. Stem Cells Translational Medicine 2019.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31313515	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313515	stress
Environmental toxicology	Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) increase rage signaling to promote downstream cardiovascular remodeling.	Exposure to environmental contaminants and consumption of a high, saturated fatty diet has been demonstrated to promote precursors for metabolic syndrome (hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia). The purpose of this study was to determine if exposure to the most prevalent environmental persistent organic pollutants (POPs) would act as causative agents to promote metabolic syndrome independent of dietary intake. We hypothesized that POPs will activate the advanced glycated end-product (AGE)-and receptor for AGE (RAGE) signaling cascade to promote downstream signaling modulators of cardiovascular remodeling and oxidative stress in the heart. At 5-weeks of age nondiabetic (WT) and diabetic (ob/ob) mice were exposed POPs mixtures by oral gavage twice a week for 6-weeks. At the end of 6-weeks, animals were sacrificed and the hearts were taken for biochemical analysis. Increased activation of the AGE-RAGE signaling cascade via POPs exposure resulted in elevated levels of fibroblast differentiation (α-smooth muscle actin) and RAGE expression indicated maladaptive cardiac remodeling. Conversely, the observed decreased superoxide dismutase-1 and -2 (SOD-1 and SOD-2) expression may exacerbate the adverse changes occurring as a result of POPs treatment to reduce innate cardioprotective mechanisms. In comparison, ventricular collagen levels were decreased in mice exposed to POPs. In conclusion, exposure to organic environmental pollutants may intensify oxidative and inflammatory stressors to overwhelm protective mechanisms allowing for adverse cardiac remodeling.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313498	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313498	stress
Journal of evolutionary biology	Interactive effects of social environment, age and sex on immune responses in Drosophila melanogaster.	Social environments have been shown to have multiple effects on individual immune responses. For example, increased social contact might signal greater infection risk and prompt a prophylactic upregulation of immunity. This differential investment of resources may in part explain why social environments affect ageing and lifespan. Our previous work using Drosophila melanogaster showed that single-sex social contact reduced lifespan for both sexes. Here, we assess how social interactions (isolation or contact) affect susceptibility to infection, phagocytotic activity and expression of a subset of immune and stress related genes in young and old flies of both sexes. Social contact had a neutral, or even improved, effect on post-infection lifespan in older flies and reduced the expression of stress response genes in females, however it reduced phagocytotic activity. Overall the effects of social environment were complex and largely subtle, and do not indicate a consistent effect. Together, these findings indicate that social contact in D. melanogaster does not have a predictable impact on immune responses and does not simply trade-off immune investment with lifespan. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31313398	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313398	stress
The International journal of eating disorders	Re-conceptualization of anorexia nervosa psychopathology: A network analysis study in adolescents with short duration of the illness.	These findings suggest that anorexia nervosa is characterized by a broad psychopathological spectrum rather than the mere eating disorder core symptoms, confirm the need to re-conceptualize psychiatric comorbidity in this disorder, and provide intriguing diagnostic and therapeutic implications.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313374	stress
Journal of veterinary internal medicine	Clinical effect of probiotics in prevention or treatment of gastrointestinal disease in dogs: A systematic review.	The current data point toward a very limited and possibly clinically unimportant effect for prevention or treatment of acute gastrointestinal disease. For chronic gastrointestinal disease, dietary intervention remains the major key in treatment, whereas probiotic supplement seems not to add significant improvement. However, studies were often underpowered, underscoring the need for future larger, preferably multicenter studies.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313372	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313372	stress
Journal of food science	Antioxidant Profile of 1-Monocaffeoyl Glycerol in Lipophobic/Lipophilic Media.	Oxidative stress has been generally considered as one trigger of organism imbalance, resulting in lipid peroxidation, DNA damage and protein oxidation, which could be relieved by antioxidant supplement or endogenous antioxidant system. In present study, 1-monocaffeoyl glycerol (1-MCG), an amphipathic caffeic acid natural derivative, was enzymatically synthesized by Lipozyme 435, and its antioxidant profile in both lipophilic and lipophobic media was evaluated. The 1-MCG was identified by HPLC-UV, HPLC-ESI-MS, and 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313325	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313325	stress
Journal of the history of the behavioral sciences	Equanimity: The somatization of a moral sentiment from the eighteenth to late twentieth century.	Over the past 40 years, mindfulness-based therapies (MBTs) have gained a reputation among the biomedical community for their ability to contribute to health, mental capital, and human flourishing. Recently, however, critical mindfulness scholars have questioned the moral import of MBTs, claiming that, in modernizing meditation, they strip Buddhist practices of their ethical and soteriological content. Inspired by Harrington and Dunne's (2015, p. 630) recent call to historicize this present discontent, I offer an account for this perceived "de-ethicization" of mindfulness, locating it in a long history of changes in the ontological infrastructures supporting moral reasoning from the eighteenth century onwards. Through the example of equanimity-a virtue that has been a part of Western and Eastern character ethics and theories of flourishing from the ancient period to the modern age-I show how, from the eighteenth century, research in the natural sciences on nervous diseases, stress, and relaxation, provided a frame for rethinking moral equanimity as a somatic experience of physiological calm. This transformation reaches its peak in the late twentieth century in research on mindfulness, which builds upon that tradition by folding into its ambit Eastern conceptions of equanimity as well. Insofar as modern MBTs continue to somatize moral virtues, I argue that they raise questions about the degree to which they are conducive to human flourishing and well-being, as opposed to the related but narrower notions of health and mental capital.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313322	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313322	stress
International journal of psychology : Journal international de psychologie	A randomised controlled trial of the Adult Resilience Program: A universal prevention program.	A randomised, waitlist controlled, trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of the Adult Resilience Program (ARP), a universal prevention social-emotional programme for adolescents and adults, on self-reported depression, anxiety, stress, resilience, and self-esteem. Seventy-six students from a private university in Singapore were randomised to the ARP group or wait-list control (WLC) group and assessments were conducted at pre-intervention (T1), post-intervention (T2), and 6-month follow-up (T3). A 2 × 3 mixed between-within groups multivariate analysis of variance with the between-group factor of Group (ARP, WLC) and the within-group factor of time (T1, T2, and T3) and the dependent variables of depression, anxiety, stress, resilience and self-esteem, with age and stage of degree as covariates showed a significant decrease over time in depression (ηp	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313297	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313297	stress
International journal of behavioral medicine	Post-traumatic Stress Disorder, Cocaine Use, and HIV Persistence.	Further research is needed to examine the potentially bi-directional pathways linking PTSD symptom severity and HIV persistence.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31313251	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313251	stress
Biological trace element research	The Footprints of Oxidative Stress and Mitochondrial Impairment in Arsenic Trioxide-Induced Testosterone Release Suppression in Pubertal and Mature F1-Male Balb/c Mice via the Downregulation of 3β-HSD, 17β-HSD, and CYP11a Expression.	Exposure to arsenic (AS) causes abnormalities in the reproductive system; however, the precise cellular pathway of AS toxicity on steroidogenesis in developing F1-male mice has not been clearly defined. In this study, paternal mice were treated with arsenic trioxide (As	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313246	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313246	stress
Biological trace element research	Effect of Low-Level Laser on Some Metals Related to Redox State and Histological Alterations in the Liver and Kidney of Irradiated Rats.	Low-level laser therapy (LLLT) is a type of medicine that uses laser light at low levels to activate the cellular chromophores and the initiation of cellular signaling. This study aimed to evaluate the photomodulation effect of LLL against ionizing radiation (IR)-induced metal disorders related to redox state in the liver and kidney of male rats. Rats were divided into 4 groups (control, LLLT, IR (7Gy), IR+LLLT). The results showed that LLLT 870 nm one time for 3 days post-irradiation revealed redistribution of iron (Fe), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn),calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg), manganese (Mn), and selenium (Se) in the liver and kidney tissues. Moreover, LLLT attenuated the oxidative stress manifested by a marked reduction of hydrogen peroxide (H	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313245	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313245	stress
Biological trace element research	Gold-Coated Superparamagnetic Iron Oxide Nanoparticles Attenuate Collagen-Induced Arthritis after Magnetic Targeting.	The aim of the study was to evaluate if gold-coated superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (AuSPION) magnetic-targeted to the arthritic articulation of collagen induced arthritis (CIA) rats are able to ameliorate rheumatoid arthritis without producing significant biological adverse effects in comparison to colloidal Au nanoparticles (AuC) and metotrexate (MTX). Male Wistar rats were divided into control; arthritic; AuSPION (150 μg kg	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313244	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313244	stress
Environmental science and pollution research international	Effect of acute ammonia exposure on the glutathione redox system in FFRC strain common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.).	Ammonia is one of the most common aquatic pollutants. To analyze the effect of ammonia exposure on the glutathione redox system, we investigated the levels of hydrogen peroxide (H	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313232	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313232	stress
Environmental science and pollution research international	Toxicity assessment of ZnO nanoparticles to freshwater microalgae Coelastrella terrestris.	Commercial usage of ZnO nanoparticles has increased recently due to its versatile applications, raising serious environmental concern because of its ultimate release of nanoparticles in aquatic ecosystem. Therefore, it is important to understand the impact of ZnO nanoparticle toxicity especially on algal flora, which is the primary producer in the aquatic food chain. In the current study, algal growth kinetics was assessed after the exposure of zinc oxide nanoparticles and its bulk counterpart to Coelastrella terrestris (Chlorophyceae). Zinc oxide nanoparticles were found to be more toxic (y = 34.673x, R	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313230	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313230	stress
Journal of muscle research and cell motility	Quantitative high-precision imaging of myosin-dependent filamentous actin dynamics.	Over recent decades, considerable effort has been made to understand how mechanical stress applied to the actin network alters actin assembly and disassembly dynamics. However, there are conflicting reports concerning the issue both in vitro and in cells. In this review, we discuss concerns regarding previous quantitative live-cell experiments that have attempted to evaluate myosin regulation of filamentous actin (F-actin) turnover. In particular, we highlight an error-generating mechanism in quantitative live-cell imaging, namely convection-induced misdistribution of actin-binding probes. Direct observation of actin turnover at the single-molecule level using our improved electroporation-based Single-Molecule Speckle (eSiMS) microscopy technique overcomes these concerns. We introduce our recent single-molecule analysis that unambiguously demonstrates myosin-dependent regulation of F-actin stability in live cells. We also discuss the possible application of eSiMS microscopy in the analysis of actin remodeling in striated muscle cells.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313218	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313218	stress
Neurocritical care	Stress-Induced Hyperglycemia and Remote Diffusion-Weighted Imaging Lesions in Primary Intracerebral Hemorrhage.	Our study demonstrated that SIH was associated with the occurrence of R-DWILs in patients with primary ICH within 14 days of symptom onset.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313140	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313140	stress
Journal of cancer survivorship : research and practice	Subjective cognitive functioning and associations with psychological distress in adult brain tumour survivors.	These findings highlight the potential value of psychological interventions targeting anxiety and cognitive effects to improve quality of survivorship after brain tumour.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313128	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313128	stress
Metabolic brain disease	High fat-low protein diet induces metabolic alterations and cognitive dysfunction in female rats.	Approximately one-third of the world population is suffering from MetS, and the same is expected to rise in the years to come. Worldwide, most of the staple diets contain high amounts of carbohydrates, fats and comparatively low quantities of proteins. The goal of this study was to evaluate the effect of high fat-low protein diet in the development of the metabolic syndrome and associated cognitive deficits in the female rats. The rats fed with high fat-low protein diet (HFLPD) and 15% oral fructose solution for 24 weeks. Body weight, food intake, water intake, fasting blood glucose, oral glucose tolerance, glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313125	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313125	stress
Metabolic brain disease	Troxerutin exerts neuroprotection against lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced oxidative stress and neuroinflammation through targeting SIRT1/SIRT3 signaling pathway.	This study was conducted to clarify the potential mechanisms of Troxerutin neuroprotection against Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced oxidative stress and neuroinflammation through targeting the SIRT1/SIRT3 signaling pathway. To establish a model, a single dose of LPS (500μg/kg body weight) was injected to male Wistar rats intraperitoneally. Troxerutin (100 mg/kg body weight) was injected intraperitoneally for 5 days after induction of the model. Cognitive and behavioral evaluations were performed using Y-maze, single-trial passive avoidance, and novel object recognition tests. The expression of inflammatory mediators, SIRT1/SIRT3, and P53 was measured using the ELISA assay. Likewise, the expression levels of SIRT1/SIRT3 and NF-κB were determined using Western blot assay. Brain acetyl-cholinesterase activity was determined by utilizing the method of Ellman. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) was detected using Fluorescent probe 2, 7-dichlorofluorescein diacetate (DCFH-DA). Furthermore, malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were determined. A single intraperitoneal injection of LPS was led to ROS production, acute neuroinflammation, apoptotic cell death, and inactivation of the SIRT1/SIRT3 signaling pathway. Likewise, ELISA assay demonstrated that post-treatment with Troxerutin considerably suppressed LPS-induced acute neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, apoptosis and subsequently memory impairments by targeting SIRT1/SIRT3 signaling pathway. Western blot assay confirmed ELISA results about SIRT1/SIRT3 and NF-κB proteins. These results suggest that Troxerutin can be a suitable candidate to treat neuroinflammation caused by neurodegenerative disorders.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313124	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313124	stress
Genes & genomics	Physiological responses and small RNAs changes in maize under nitrogen deficiency and resupply.	Our study comprehensively provides important information on miRNA functions and molecular mechanisms in response to N stress. These findings may assist to improve nitrogen availability in plants.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Korea (South)	31313105	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313105	stress
Journal of nuclear cardiology : official publication of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology	Evaluation of quantitative CMR perfusion imaging by comparison with simultaneous 	The correlation between simultaneous MBF measurements with DCE MRI and 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313066	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313066	stress
Journal of community health	Barriers to Pap Smear Among Homeless Women at Albuquerque Healthcare for the Homeless.	The purpose of this cross-sectional survey study was to explore common barriers to adequate Pap smear utilization among homeless women, and the factors that may relate to cervical cancer testing in this population. Participants consisted of adult women recruited at a healthcare facility for the homeless. Data were collected through a self-completed questionnaire on knowledge, attitudes and intentions about Pap smears and cervical cancer. Analyses included descriptive and inferential statistics. Sixty participants who had experienced homelessness within the past year completed the study. The most frequently mentioned barrier to testing was not having enough time to obtain a Pap smear (n = 33; 55%). Linear regression found that there were no significant relationships between knowledge and attitudes about cervical cancer and intention to get a Pap smear. However, the study did find that women with a positive previous Pap smear experience had more positive attitudes about the process and outcomes of Pap smears (p = 0.011, p = 0.00, respectively). Participants with more knowledge about cervical cancer were less negative about Pap smear outcomes (p = 0.05), and that women with negative attitudes about Pap smear outcomes were less likely to have obtained a Pap smear in the past (p = 0.033). Interventions that promote positive attitudes about testing and outcomes, minimizing stress and inconvenience during the test, as well as increasing the ease of scheduling an appointment may help break down barriers to cervical cancer screening among homeless women.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31313028	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313028	stress
Sleep & breathing = Schlaf & Atmung	Oxidative stress and inflammatory profiles in obstructive sleep apnea: are short-term CPAP or aerobic exercise therapies effective?	Short-term treatment for OSA, be it CPAP therapy or moderate-intensity aerobic exercise, was not sufficient to alter either the oxidative stress and inflammatory profiles or the cell-free DNA levels of moderate to severe OSA patients. Short-term CPAP did, however, improve self-reported sleep quality.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313021	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313021	stress
Tropical animal health and production	Conception rate following artificial insemination with sexed semen in Holstein heifers under artificial cooling during summer compared with winter season.	The objective of this study was to compare the fertility of Holstein heifers under cooling and inseminated with sexed semen during the summer versus winter season. Eighty heifers were divided into two groups: (1) summer group (n = 40), consisted of heifers under visual heat detection and inseminated with sexed semen. These heifers were also provided with artificial cooling under shade area from 1000 to 1800 h. (2) Winter group (n = 40), heifers under shade only and with the same reproductive protocol than the summer group. The rectal temperature and respiratory rate were higher (P < 0.05) in the summer group. Vaginal temperature presented higher values in summer (P < 0.05) in most of the daylight hours except between 1100 and 1200 h (P > 0.05). Progesterone, as measured from the AI to 21 days after AI, showed higher values (P < 0.05) in days 6, 12, 18, and 21 during summer compared with winter in pregnant heifers; also, non-pregnant heifers had higher concentrations of progesterone on days 6, 9, 15, and 21 (P < 0.05) in winter. The conception rate in winter at day 35 post-AI (65%) was higher (P < 0.05) than those observed during summer (37.5%). In conclusion, although the lower fertility observed during summer with sexed semen, it can be considered as normal and comparable to the conception rate with conventional semen under hot climate.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31313016	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313016	stress
In vitro cellular & developmental biology. Animal	β-carotene improves oocyte development and maturation under oxidative stress in vitro.	Recently, the mean maternal age at first birth has been continuing to increase. The decline in the age-related fertility is due to the reduction in the number and the quality of the oocyte. An elevation in intra-ovarian reactive oxygen species (ROS) is correlated with the increase in maternal age, and the oxidative stress is involved in the decline in oocyte quality. Although β-carotene, a very effective quencher of ROS, has been found to have the beneficial contribution to the ovarian development and steroidogenesis, it is unknown the effect of β-carotene on the oocyte development especially oocyte maturation. This investigation aimed to explore the beneficial contribution of β-carotene on oocyte maturation under oxidative stress and the underlying mechanism. We found that the oxidative stress induced by ROS reagent Rosup inhibited oocyte development/maturation and parthenogenetic activation which could be dramatically rescued by β-carotene (57.1 ± 4.7% vs 78.9 ± 3.8%; p < 0.05) in vitro. The underlying mechanisms include that β-carotene not only reduces ROS formation and cell apoptosis, but also it can restore actin expression, cortical granule-free domain (CGFD) formation, mitochondria homogeneous distribution, and nuclear maturation. The data suggest that β-carotene acts as a potential antioxidant in the oocyte. Therefore, the findings from this investigation provide the fundamental 7knowledge for using β-carotene as an antioxidant to improve the oocyte quality and even the ovarian function.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31313007	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31313007	stress
Digestive diseases and sciences	Effects of Pristine C	Pristine C	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312992	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312992	stress
Environmental geochemistry and health	Bioindication of soil pollution in the delta of the Don River and the coast of the Taganrog Bay with heavy metals based on anatomical, morphological and biogeochemical studies of macrophyte (Typha australis Schum. & Thonn).	The results of biogeochemical and bioindication studies on the resistance of natural populations of macrophyte plant-cattail (Typha australis Schum. & Thonn) on the coast of the Taganrog Bay of the Sea of Azov and the sea edge of the Don River delta with regard to local pollution zones are presented. Plant resistance has been assessed through manifestation of their protective functions in relation to heavy metals. An excess in the lithospheric Clarkes and MPC in Zn, Cd and Pb in Fluvisols has been found. The total index of soil pollution (Z	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31312968	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312968	stress
World journal of surgery	Perioperative Allogeneic Blood Transfusion Does not Influence Patient Survival After Hepatectomy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma: A Propensity Score Matching Analysis.	Using propensity score matching, we found that PABT does not influence patient survival after HR for HCC.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312946	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312946	stress
Current genetics	The AP-1-like transcription factor ChAP1 balances tolerance and cell death in the response of the maize pathogen Cochliobolus heterostrophus to a plant phenolic.	Fungal pathogens need to contend with stresses including oxidants and antimicrobial chemicals resulting from host defenses. ChAP1 of Cochliobolus heterostrophus, agent of Southern corn leaf blight, encodes an ortholog of yeast YAP1. ChAP1 is retained in the nucleus in response to plant-derived phenolic acids, in addition to its well-studied activation by oxidants. Here, we used transcriptome profiling to ask which genes are regulated in response to ChAP1 activation by ferulic acid (FA), a phenolic abundant in the maize host. Nuclearization of ChAP1 in response to phenolics is not followed by strong expression of genes needed for oxidative stress tolerance. We, therefore, compared the transcriptomes of the wild-type pathogen and a ChAP1 deletion mutant, to study the function of ChAP1 in response to FA. We hypothesized that if ChAP1 is retained in the nucleus under plant-related stress conditions yet in the absence of obvious oxidant stress, it should have additional regulatory functions. The transcriptional signature in response to FA in the wild type compared to the mutant sheds light on the signaling mechanisms and response pathways by which ChAP1 can mediate tolerance to ferulic acid, distinct from its previously known role in the antioxidant response. The ChAP1-dependent FA regulon consists mainly of two large clusters. The enrichment of transport and metabolism-related genes in cluster 1 indicates that C. heterostrophus degrades FA and removes it from the cell. When this fails at increasing stress levels, FA provides a signal for cell death, indicated by the enrichment of cell death-related genes in cluster 2. By quantitation of survival and by TUNEL assays, we show that ChAP1 promotes survival and mitigates cell death. Growth rate data show a time window in which the mutant colony expands faster than the wild type. The results delineate a transcriptional regulatory pattern in which ChAP1 helps balance a survival response for tolerance to FA, against a pathway promoting cell death in the pathogen. A general model for the transition from a phase where the return to homeostasis dominates to a phase leading to the onset of cell death provides a context for understanding these findings.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312934	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312934	stress
Biomechanics and modeling in mechanobiology	Image-based analysis and simulation of the effect of platelet storage temperature on clot mechanics under uniaxial strain.	Optimal strength and stability of blood clots are keys to hemostasis and in prevention of hemorrhagic or thrombotic complications. Clots are biocomposite materials composed of fibrin network enmeshing platelets and other blood cells. We have previously shown that the storage temperature of platelets significantly impacts clot structure and stiffness. The objective of this work is to delineate the relationship between morphological characteristics and mechanical response of clot networks. We examined scanning electron microscope images of clots prepared from fresh apheresis platelets, and from apheresis platelets stored for 5 days at room temperature or at 4 °C, suspended in pooled plasma. Principal component analysis of nine different morphometric parameters revealed that a single principal component (PC1) can distinguish the effect of platelet storage on clot ultrastructure. Finite element analysis of clot response to uniaxial strain was used to map the spatially heterogeneous distribution of strain energy density for each clot. At modest deformations (25% strain), a single principal component (PC2) was able to predict these heterogeneities as quantified by variability in strain energy density distribution and in linear elastic stiffness, respectively. We have identified structural parameters that are primary regulators of stress distribution, and the observations provide insights into the importance of spatial heterogeneity on hemostasis and thrombosis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312933	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312933	stress
Annals of intensive care	Long-term neurocognitive outcome is not worsened by of the use of venovenous ECMO in severe ARDS patients.	Using the WAIS-IV, VV-ECMO treatment does not appear to worsen long-term cognitive and neuropsychological outcomes in severe ARDS patients.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31312911	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312911	stress
International urogynecology journal	Gene expression in stress urinary incontinence: a systematic review.	Many genes are involved in the pathogenesis of SUI. Furthermore, whole-genome studies are warranted to identify these genetic connections. This study lays the groundwork for future research and the development of novel therapies and SUI biomarkers in clinical practice.	2019	eng	Review	England	31312847	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312847	stress
Contemporary clinical trials communications	Protocol for evaluating a workplace intervention within the framework of consultations for suffering at work in French-speaking Switzerland.	This exploratory research project will provide a better understanding of the issues surrounding work-related psychological suffering and of which strategies support patients most effectively.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31312747	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312747	stress
Communications biology	Forecasting cell fate during antibiotic exposure using stochastic gene expression.	Antibiotic killing does not occur at a single, precise time for all cells within a population. Variability in time to death can be caused by stochastic expression of genes, resulting in differences in endogenous stress-resistance levels between individual cells in a population. Here we investigate whether single-cell differences in gene expression prior to antibiotic exposure are related to cell survival times after antibiotic exposure for a range of genes of diverse function. We quantified the time to death of single cells under antibiotic exposure in combination with expression of reporters. For some reporters, including genes involved in stress response and cellular processes like metabolism, the time to cell death had a strong relationship with the initial expression level of the genes. Our results highlight the single-cell level non-uniformity of antibiotic killing and also provide examples of key genes where cell-to-cell variation in expression is strongly linked to extended durations of antibiotic survival.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312728	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312728	stress
Global health research and policy	Implementation and fidelity of a participatory learning and action cycle intervention to prevent and control type 2 diabetes in rural Bangladesh.	Our complex intervention was implemented as planned and is likely to be valid in similar contexts given the flexibility of the participatory approach to contextually specific barriers to prevention and control of type 2 diabetes. Fidelity to the participatory approach is key to implementing the intervention and effectively addressing type 2 diabetes in a low-income country.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312722	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312722	stress
Sports medicine international open	Behavioral Modification Enhances the Benefits from Structured Aerobic and Resistance Training.	Behavioral modification (BM) is a strategy designed to sustain or restore well-being through effects such as enhanced relaxation, reduced stress, and improved sleep. Few studies have explored the role of BM delivered in the context of fitness programs for healthy adults. Thus, the purpose of this investigation was to examine whether BM combined with aerobic and resistance training programs would improve health and fitness measures more than the exercise training alone. Thirty-two healthy fitness club members (19 men) were randomized to receive a BM program (n=15) or an equal-attention (EA) control (n=17). BM consisted of twelve, 10-min education sessions between a trained fitness professional and the participant, coupled with weekly, individualized relaxation, stress reduction, and sleep improvement assignments. All participants engaged in 1 h of coached resistance training and remotely guided aerobic exercise thrice weekly for 12 weeks. Fitness measures (aerobic performance, body composition, muscle strength and endurance, lower-body power), sleep characteristics, and heart rate variability (HRV) were obtained at baseline and after the 12-week program. BM resulted in greater improvements in aerobic performance (increased maximum oxygen uptake, metabolic (lactate) threshold, and percent of maximum oxygen uptake at which metabolic threshold occurred), peak and average lower-body power, and body composition (decreased body fat percentage and fat mass) compared to EA. BM also positively influenced parasympathetic tone through increased High-frequency HRV. BM resulted in greater improvements in fitness measures, body composition, and heart rate variability compared with EA. These findings have intriguing implications regarding the role of BM in augmenting health and physical performance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312715	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312715	stress
BioMed research international	Prepregnancy Obesity, Maternal Dietary Intake, and Oxidative Stress Biomarkers in the Fetomaternal Unit.	Prepregnancy obesity is associated with a decrease in GPx4 expression in the placenta, which is related to OS in the newborn. The influence of micronutrient intake on OS biomarkers highlights the importance of nutritional assessment during pregnancy and adequate prenatal care.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312657	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312657	stress
Molecular neuropsychiatry	Sex-Specific Effects of Stress on Mood-Related Gene Expression.	Women are twice as likely as men to be diagnosed with major depressive disorder (MDD). Recent studies report distinct molecular changes in depressed men and women across mesocorticolimbic brain regions. However, it is unclear which sex-related factors drive distinct MDD-associated pathology. The goal of this study was to use mouse experimental systems to investigate sex-specific mechanisms underlying the distinct molecular profiles of MDD in men and women. We used unpredictable chronic mild stress to induce an elevated anxiety-/depressive-like state and "four core genotypes" (FCG) mice to probe for sex-specific mechanisms. As predicted, based on previous implications in mood, stress impacted the expression of several dopamine-, GABA-, and glutamate-related genes. Some of these effects, specifically in the prefrontal cortex, were genetic sex-specific, with effects in XX mice but not in XY mice. Stress also impacted gene expression differently across the mesocorticolimbic circuit, with increased expression of mood-related genes in the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens, but decreased expression in basolateral amygdala. Our results suggest that females are sensitive to the effects of chronic stress, partly due to their genetic sex, independent of gonadal hormones. Furthermore, these results point to the prefrontal cortex as the node in the mesocorticolimbic circuitry with the strongest female-specific effects.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312637	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312637	stress
Biotechnology reports (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Deesterification of astaxanthin and intermediate esters from 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31312607	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312607	stress
Toxicology reports	Protective efficacy using Cape- golden berry against pre-carcinogenic aflatoxins induced in rats.	Aflatoxins are harmful compounds that induced carcinogenic impacts on tissues. It could generate oxidative stress causing cells damage. Bioactive substances from natural plants could avoid mycotoxins' bad impacts. Cape-goldenberry (CGB), a source of active substances, was vacuum-dried at 30 °C then milled. Fresh and dried CGB-powder properties were estimated. Animal experiment was designed using six rat-groups to evaluate CBG effect to reduce harmful effect of aflatoxins. Rats treated groups were orally administrated by aflatoxins (AFs) with or without CGB in diets. Blood parameters, liver and kidney functions, serum lipids, and liver histological changes were estimated. The CGB powder showed several time doubles of phenolics, flavonoids, and antioxidants than fresh fruits. Diet supplementation by CGB of AFs-treated rats showed enhancement in final weight, food efficiency, and weight gain compared to AFs treatment only. Also, liver and kidney functions, liver enzymes, iron level, tumors indicator, and serum lipids of AFs- rats. Moreover, total protein, albumin, and globulin reduction by AFs have been improved by CGB presence in diets. Histopathological studies for AFs-rats liver showed dilated blood sinusoids with aggregation of inflammatory, Kupffer cell hyperplasia, degenerated hepatocytes, and apoptotic cells. However, in AFs-rat groups fed CGB in diets, liver hepatocytes appeared to be almost normal similar to the control. Results pointed out that CGB recorded a corrective action for aflatoxin B	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31312606	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312606	stress
Cureus	Evidence for the Role of Mindfulness in Cancer: Benefits and Techniques.	Mindfulness is being used increasingly in various aspects of cancer management. Benefits of mindfulness practices are being observed to manage the adverse effects of treatment, symptoms from cancer progression, and the cost-effectiveness compared to conventional contemporary management strategies. In this review article, we present clinical trial data showing the benefits of mindfulness in various aspects of cancer management as well as techniques that have been commonly used in this practice.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31312555	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312555	stress
Cell death discovery	Avenanthramide-C prevents noise- and drug-induced hearing loss while protecting auditory hair cells from oxidative stress.	Noise exposure or ototoxic drugs instigate various types of damage to the cochlea, resulting in hearing loss (HL). While the incidence of HL is growing continuously, there are, so far, no adequate drugs to prevent or treat HL. Avenanthramide (AVN), a natural product extracted from oats, has been reported to possess anti-oxidant/inflammatory properties, and protect several types of cells. In this study, we investigated whether AVN-C can protect auditory hair cells, and preserve hearing from noise trauma and ototoxic drugs. Wild-type C57BL/6 mice were used to generate several HL models. Serum and perilymphatic fluid samples were analyzed using mass spectrophotometry to detect AVN-C. AVN-C crossed the blood-labyrinth barrier, and was detected in the perilymph after systemic injection. Pretreatment by AVN-C 24 h before exposure to temporary threshold shift noise contributed to the preserving hearing. Moreover, in the case of permanent threshold shift, AVN-C provided significant protection from noise. AVN-C also strongly protected against deterioration in hearing due to kanamycin and furosemide (K + F). According to the results of our scanning electron microscopy analysis, many outer hair cells (OHCs) were destroyed by noise trauma, while AVN-C prevented these losses. OHC loss due to K + F was even more severe, even affecting the apex. Strikingly, AVN-C treatment maintained OHCs at a level comparable to normal cochlea. AVN-C reduced the dichlorofluorescin (DCF)-positive population in gentamicin-treated HEI-OC1 in vitro. The expressions of TNF-a, BAK, IL-1b, and Bcl-2 were attenuated by AVN-C, revealing its antioxidant effects. The results of this study show that AVN-C crosses the blood-labyrinth barrier and provide a significant protection against noise- and drug-induced ototoxicity. Hence, AVN-C is a good candidate for future therapy aimed at protecting against sensorineural HL.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312524	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312524	stress
Fertility research and practice	Perceptions, expectations and challenges among men during in vitro fertilization treatment in a low resource setting: a qualitative study.	Men's experiences during IVF treatment were negatively affected by the society's perceptions of IVF treatment and infertility, cost of treatment, perceived men's involvement and insufficient knowledge about the IVF process. However, spouse and friends' support helped with coping and the IVF treatment experience strengthened emotional bonds.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312510	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312510	stress
Royal Society open science	Mechanotransmission of haemodynamic forces by the endothelial glycocalyx in a full-scale arterial model.	The glycocalyx has been identified as a key mechano-sensor of the shear forces exerted by streaming blood onto the vascular endothelial lining. Although the biochemical reaction to the blood flow has been extensively studied, the mechanism of transmission of the haemodynamic shear forces to the endothelial transmembrane anchoring structures and, consequently, to the subcellular elements in the cytoskeleton, is still not fully understood. Here we apply a multiscale approach to elucidate how haemodynamic shear forces are transmitted to the transmembrane anchors of endothelial cells. Wall shear stress time histories, as obtained from image-based computational haemodynamics models of a carotid bifurcation, are used as a load and a continuum model is applied to obtain the mechanical response of the glycocalyx all along the cardiac cycle. The main findings of this 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312506	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312506	stress
Royal Society open science	Contrasting characteristic behaviours among common laboratory mouse strains.	Mice are widely used to model wide-ranging human neurological disorders, from development to degenerative pathophysiology. Behavioural and molecular characteristics of these mouse models are influenced by the genetic background of each strain. Among the most commonly used strains, the inbred C57BL/6J, BALB/c, CBA and 129SvEv lines and the CD1 outbred line are particularly predominant. Despite their prevalence, comparative performance of these strains on many standard behavioural tests commonly used to assess neurological conditions remains diffusely and indirectly accessible in the literature. Given that independent studies may be conducted with mice of differing genetic backgrounds, any variation in characteristic behavioural responses of specific strains should be delineated in order to properly interpret results among studies. Thus, in the present study, we aimed to characterize these commonly used mice strains through several standard behavioural tests. Here, we found that animals from different genetic background strains exhibited varying behavioural patterns when assessed for sociability/novelty, memory function, and negative behaviours like despair and stress calls. These results suggest that genetic variation among strains may be responsible-in part-for strain-specific behavioural phenotypes and potential predisposition to some neurological disorders.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312505	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312505	stress
Royal Society open science	Trans-scale relationship analysis between the pore structure and macro parameters of backfill and slurry.	The characteristics of the porous structure of backfill are directly related to the macro parameters of the flowability of the filling slurry and the mechanical features of the backfill, which are fundamental to the study of multiscale mechanics of backfill. Based on the geometry and fractal theory, scanning electron microscopy images of backfill were analysed by image analysis methods such as OTSU and box counting. The fractal dimension of the pore structure was calculated. By quantitatively characterizing the pore structure, the trans-scale relationships between the fractal dimension of the pore structure and the macro parameters of the filling slurry were established in terms of equilibrium shear stress (ESS) and equilibrium apparent viscosity (EAV). In addition, the correlations between the fractal dimension and macro parameters of backfill were obtained in terms of uniaxial compressive strength (UCS), water content (WC) and porosity. The influence of the microstructure on the macro parameters was discussed. The results show the following: (i) the fractal dimension of the backfill pore structure can characterize the complexity of the structure; (ii) the fractal dimension of the pore structure is negatively correlated with the ESS and EAV of the filling slurry. The UCS of the backfill is positively correlated with the flowability parameter; (iii) the fractal dimension of the pore structure has a certain correlation with some macro parameters of the backfill, i.e. the fractal dimension is negatively correlated with the UCS and positively correlated with the WC and (iv) the linear correlations between the pore fractal dimension and UCS and WC are established. The correlation coefficient between the fractal dimension and UCS has an 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312499	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312499	stress
Royal Society open science	A new loading-unloading experimental method for simulating the change of mining-induced stress.	Based on a self-developed triaxial seepage device, a new loading and unloading experimental method is proposed in this paper to eliminate sample variations. The results show that the strength of sandstone sample and the axial strain at failure increased with the increasing initial hydrostatic stress, but decreased with the increasing loading-unloading rate. Following the alternating loading-unloading test, the stress-strain curves of specimens advanced in wave form, the waves' volatility decreased and then increased. It is found that near the ultimate strength, volatility is the biggest, and the stability of waves' volatility increased along with the increasing initial hydrostatic stress. The similarity of stress-strain curves between the conventional loading-unloading tests and the alternating loading-unloading tests increased along with the increasing initial hydrostatic stress and the increasing initial velocity for the alternating loading-unloading method. Along with the increasing initial hydrostatic stress, the failure behaviour of the sandstone samples tested under loading-unloading methods changed from a tensile state to a tensile-shear coexisting state, and finally to a fully shear failure state. The degree of failure modes increased with the increasing loading-unloading rate.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312477	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312477	stress
Journal of animal science and biotechnology	Addition of tert-butylhydroquinone (TBHQ) to maize oil reduces lipid oxidation but does not prevent reductions in serum vitamin E in nursery pigs.	The addition of TBHQ did not affect growth performance and vitamin E status in pigs fed moderately oxidized maize oil, but TBHQ reduced lipid oxidation, enhanced the oil stability, and appeared to reduce oxidative stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312446	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312446	stress
Cell & bioscience	Physiological and transcriptome analyses of 	Taken together, the results indicate that 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312427	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312427	stress
ACS medicinal chemistry letters	Antioxidant, Anti-inflammatory, and Neuroprotective Effects of Novel Vinyl Sulfonate Compounds as Nrf2 Activator.	The main pathway responsible for cellular regulation against oxidative stress is nuclear factor E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) signaling. We previously synthesized and reported a novel vinyl sulfone (	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312409	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312409	stress
American journal of translational research	Palbociclib improves cardiac dysfunction in diabetic cardiomyopathy by regulating Rb phosphorylation.	Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a condition associated with significant structural changes including cardiac tissue necrosis, localized fibrosis, and hypertrophy of cardiomyocytes. This study sought to assess whether and how CDK4/6 inhibitor, Palbociclib, can attenuate DCM using a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced DCM model system. In this study, we found CDK4 and CDK6 expression are significantly increased the cardiac tissue of these mice. Palbociclib treatment after initial STZ administration attenuated oxidative stress and inflammation, thereby reducing cardiomyocyte death and preserving cardiac function in these animals. In addition, Rb phosphorylation induction was found in STZ-treated mice, which was inhibited by Palbociclib treatment. In summary, Palbociclib protects mice from damage associated with DCM pathway activation, making Palbociclib is a relevant therapeutic target in the context of DCM.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312360	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312360	stress
American journal of translational research	Experimental evidence and network pharmacology identify the molecular targets of Tong Sheng tablets in cerebral ischemia reperfusion injury.	The present results illustrated that TSTs effectively alleviated CIRI, and the underlying mechanism might be associated with multiple molecular pathways. Herein, we established a primary pattern for studying Chinese herbal compounds and provided basic guidance for future investigation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312345	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312345	stress
Evidence-based complementary and alternative medicine : eCAM	Cytoprotective Effect of 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312223	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312223	stress
Evidence-based complementary and alternative medicine : eCAM	Effects of Royal Jelly Administration on Lipid Profile, Satiety, Inflammation, and Antioxidant Capacity in Asymptomatic Overweight Adults.	Compared with the placebo, RJ supplementation demonstrated a statistically significant decrease in total cholesterol (6.7%; 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31312222	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312222	stress
Frontiers in endocrinology	Leukocyte Mitochondrial DNA Copy Number and Risk of Thyroid Cancer: A Two-Stage Case-Control Study.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312182	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312182	stress
Frontiers in neurology	Plasma Oxidized Albumin in Acute Ischemic Stroke Is Associated With Better Outcomes.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312177	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312177	stress
Frontiers in neurology	Advances in the Potential Biomarkers of Epilepsy.	Epilepsy is a group of chronic neurological disorders characterized by recurrent, spontaneous, and unpredictable seizures. It is one of the most common neurological disorders, affecting tens of millions of people worldwide. Comprehensive studies on epilepsy in recent decades have revealed the complexity of epileptogenesis, in which immunological processes, epigenetic modifications, and structural changes in neuronal tissues have been identified as playing a crucial role. This review discusses the recent advances in the biomarkers of epilepsy. We evaluate the possible molecular background underlying the clinical changes observed in recent studies, focusing on therapeutic investigations, and the evidence of their safety and efficacy in the human population. This article reviews the pathophysiology of epilepsy, including recent reports on the effects of oxidative stress and hypoxia, and focuses on specific biomarkers and their clinical implications, along with further perspectives in epilepsy research.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312171	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312171	stress
Frontiers in psychology	Psychosocial Work Factors, Job Stress and Strain at the Wheel: Validation of the Copenhagen Psychosocial Questionnaire (COPSOQ) in Professional Drivers.	Overall, what was found in this study supports the hypothesis that the validated version of COPSOQ in professional drivers, together with complementary information sources specific for their work environment, may have a relevant research value and some important practical implications for the improvement of the occupational safety, and health within the typically vulnerable industry of transportation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312166	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312166	stress
Frontiers in psychology	Challenge and Threat: A Critical Review of the Literature and an Alternative Conceptualization.	In this article, the authors describe a new theory, the Evaluative Space Approach to Challenge and Threat (ESACT). Prompted by the Biopsychosocial model of challenge and threat (BPS: Blascovich and Tomaka, 1996) and the development of the Theory of Challenge and Threat States in Athletes (Jones et al., 2009), recent years have witnessed a considerable increase in research examining challenge and threat in sport. This manuscript provides a critical review of the literature examining challenge and threat in sport, tracing its historical development and some of the current empirical ambiguities. To reconcile some of these ambiguities, and utilizing neurobiological evidence associated with approach and avoidance motivation (c.f. Elliot and Covington, 2001), this paper draws upon the Evaluative Space Model (ESM; Cacioppo et al., 1997) and considers the implications for understanding challenge and threat in sport. For example, rather than see challenge and threat as opposite ends of a single bipolar continuum, the ESM implies that individuals could be (1) challenged, (2) threatened, (3) challenged and threatened, or (4) neither challenged or threatened by a particular stimulus. From this perspective, it could be argued that the appraisal of some sport situations as both challenging 	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31312151	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312151	stress
Frontiers in psychiatry	The Role of Prefrontal Cortical Surface Area and Volume in Preclinical Suicidal Ideation in a Non-Clinical Sample.	Suicidal ideation (SUI) can occur in the absence of concomitant psychiatric diagnoses, and even normal levels can be problematic among individuals experiencing excess stress or lack of social support. The objective of this study was to investigate the neuroanatomical basis of SUI in non-clinical human populations who are within the normal limits of SUI, after accounting for elevated stress and perceived lack of social support. Neuroanatomical data were collected from 55 healthy individuals (mean age 30.9 ± 8.1 years, 27 females) whose depression severity levels were below the 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312146	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312146	stress
Frontiers in behavioral neuroscience	The Comparison of a New Ultrasound-Induced Depression Model to the Chronic Mild Stress Paradigm.	Willner's "chronic mild stress" (CMS) model is a globally recognized and most commonly used depression model. A depression model induced by ultrasonic exposure of variable frequencies has been created in our laboratory. This article compares two models of the depressive-like state according to three validity criteria. 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312126	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312126	stress
Frontiers in cellular neuroscience	Role of Corticotropin Releasing Factor in the Neuroimmune Mechanisms of Depression: Examination of Current Pharmaceutical and Herbal Therapies.	Approximately 3% of the world population suffers from depression, which is one of the most common form of mental disorder. Recent findings suggest that an interaction between the nervous system and immune system might be behind the pathophysiology of various neurological and psychiatric disorders, including depression. Neuropeptides have been shown to play a major role in mediating response to stress and inducing immune activation or suppression. Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) is a major regulator of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis response. CRF is a stress-related neuropeptide whose dysregulation has been associated with depression. In this review, we summarized the role of CRF in the neuroimmune mechanisms of depression, and the potential therapeutic effects of Chinese herbal medicines (CHM) as well as other agents. Studying the network of CRF and immune responses will help to enhance our understanding of the pathogenesis of depression. Additionally, targeting this important network may aid in developing novel treatments for this debilitating psychiatric disorder.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312123	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312123	stress
Frontiers in neuroscience	Toward Quantifying the Psychopathology of Eating Disorders From the Autonomic Nervous System Perspective: A Methodological Approach.	The phenomenology of Eating Disorders (ED) relates with altered functioning of the Autonomic Nervous System (ANS). The lack of agreement in what comes to the direction and significance of such alterations is possibly due to the variability in the ED spectrum. As the stress response system is an integral part of the ANS, we propose to investigate ANS tonic variations and phasic activations in response to stressors. We hypothesize that, while using stress as a test probe, characteristic ANS dysregulations in ED may be found when considering several physiological signals measured over time, and weighted by the individual psychological profiles. In this article we describe a novel methodological approach to investigate this hypothesis with the aim of providing further clarification on the ED spectrum conceptualization. The proposed methodology has been designed to be easily integrated in clinical practice and, eventually, in daily life. The population under observation includes both patients in treatment for ED, and matched controls. The study session has the duration of 1 day, including: (1) the administration of a stress task in a controlled environment and (2) naturalistic data collection. The stress task is designed to elicit both mentally and physically driven ANS activation. The naturalistic component intends to illustrate the psychophysiology in everyday life. We use wearable devices to continuously and non-invasively measure bio-signals related to ANS functioning. This information is complemented with psychometric information from validated stress and ED scales and ecological momentary assessments. The protocol has received ethical approval and has been implemented in practice, currently accounting for 37 patients (out of 120) and 16 controls (out of 60). Ongoing work focus on the definition and implementation of a data processing pipeline to quantitatively test our hypothesis, both standard statistical methods and more exploratory machine learning approaches will be considered.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31312117	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312117	stress
Reproductive medicine and biology	Reproductive neuroendocrinology of mammalian gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone.	Studies suggest that mammalian GnIH is an important neuroendocrine suppressor of reproduction in mammals.	2019	eng	Review	Japan	31312100	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312100	stress
Nature reviews. Immunology	Stress response to innate immune signalosomes.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312049	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312049	stress
Oncogene	Mutant p53 improves cancer cells' resistance to endoplasmic reticulum stress by sustaining activation of the UPR regulator ATF6.	Missense mutations in the TP53 gene are frequent in human cancers, giving rise to mutant p53 proteins that can acquire oncogenic properties. Gain of function mutant p53 proteins can enhance tumour aggressiveness by promoting cell invasion, metastasis and chemoresistance. Accumulating evidences indicate that mutant p53 proteins can also modulate cell homeostatic processes, suggesting that missense p53 mutation may increase resistance of tumour cells to intrinsic and extrinsic cancer-related stress conditions, thus offering a selective advantage. Here we provide evidence that mutant p53 proteins can modulate the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) to increase cell survival upon Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) stress, a condition to which cancer cells are exposed during tumour formation and progression, as well as during therapy. Mechanistically, this action of mutant p53 is due to enhanced activation of the pro-survival UPR effector ATF6, coordinated with inhibition of the pro-apoptotic UPR effectors JNK and CHOP. In a triple-negative breast cancer cell model with missense TP53 mutation, we found that ATF6 activity is necessary for viability and invasion phenotypes. Together, these findings suggest that ATF6 inhibitors might be combined with mutant p53-targeting drugs to specifically sensitise cancer cells to endogenous or chemotherapy-induced ER stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312025	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312025	stress
Oncogene	Regulation of PERK expression by FOXO3: a vulnerability of drug-resistant cancer cells.	The major impediment to effective cancer therapy has been the development of drug resistance. The tumour suppressive transcription factor FOXO3 promotes cell cycle arrest, senescence and cell death, and mediates the cytotoxic and cytostatic functions of cancer therapeutics. In consequence, FOXO3 is often downregulated as an adaptive response in cancer and particularly in chemotherapeutic drug-resistant cells. Consistently, we find that FOXO3 expression is attenuated in the drug-resistant MCF-7-Epi	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31312024	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31312024	stress
Scientific reports	Global impact of diet and temperature over aquaculture of Octopus vulgaris paralarvae from a transcriptomic approach.	Common octopus, Octopus vulgaris, is an economically important cephalopod species. However, its rearing under captivity is currently challenged by massive mortalities previous to their juvenile stage due to nutritional and environmental factors. Dissecting the genetic basis and regulatory mechanism behind this mortality requires genomic background knowledge. A transcriptomic sequencing of 10 dph octopus paralarvae from different experimental conditions was constructed via RNA-seq. A total of 613,767,530 raw reads were filtered and de novo assembled into 363,527 contigs of which 82,513 were annotated in UniProt carrying also their GO and KEGG information. Differential gene expression analysis was carried out on paralarvae reared under different diet regimes and temperatures, also including wild paralarvae. Genes related to lipid metabolism exhibited higher transcriptional levels in individuals whose diet includes crustacean zoeas, which had an impact over their development and immune response capability. High temperature induces acclimation processes at the time that increase metabolic demands and oxidative stress. Wild individuals show an expression profile unexpectedly similar to Artemia fed individuals. Proteomic results support the hypothesis revealed by transcriptional analysis. The comparative study of the O. vulgaris transcriptomic profiles allowed the identification of genes that deserve to be further studied as candidates for biomarkers of development and health. The results obtained here on the transcriptional variations of genes caused by diet and temperature will provide new perspectives in understanding the molecular mechanisms behind nutritional and temperature requirements of common octopus that will open new opportunities to deepen in paralarvae rearing requirements.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311948	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311948	stress
Scientific reports	Different Antioxidant Efficacy of Two Mn	Oxidative stress due to excess superoxide anion ([Formula: see text]) produced by dysfunctional mitochondria is a key pathogenic event of aging and ischemia-reperfusion diseases. Here, a new [Formula: see text]-scavenging Mn	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311943	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311943	stress
Nature communications	Microinvasion by Streptococcus pneumoniae induces epithelial innate immunity during colonisation at the human mucosal surface.	Control of Streptococcus pneumoniae colonisation at human mucosal surfaces is critical to reducing the burden of pneumonia and invasive pneumococcal disease, interrupting transmission, and achieving herd protection. Here, we use an experimental human pneumococcal carriage model (EHPC) to show that S. pneumoniae colonisation is associated with epithelial surface adherence, micro-colony formation and invasion, without overt disease. Interactions between different strains and the epithelium shaped the host transcriptomic response in vitro. Using epithelial modules from a human epithelial cell model that recapitulates our in vivo findings, comprising of innate signalling and regulatory pathways, inflammatory mediators, cellular metabolism and stress response genes, we find that inflammation in the EHPC model is most prominent around the time of bacterial clearance. Our results indicate that, rather than being confined to the epithelial surface and the overlying mucus layer, the pneumococcus undergoes micro-invasion of the epithelium that enhances inflammatory and innate immune responses associated with clearance.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311921	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311921	stress
Turk Kardiyoloji Dernegi arsivi : Turk Kardiyoloji Derneginin yayin organidir	Comparison of automated quantification and semiquantitative visual analysis findings of IQ SPECT MPI with conventional coronary angiography in patients with stable angina.	The quantitative analysis and summed stress scores produced by the IQ SPECT system appear to be a useful and valid method to detect significant CAD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Turkey	31311896	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311896	stress
The Journal of biological chemistry	The signaling proteins GPR158 and RGS7 modulate excitability of L2/3 pyramidal neurons and control A-type potassium channel in the prelimbic cortex.	Stress profoundly affects physiological properties of neurons across brain circuits and thereby increases the risk for depression. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms mediating these effects are poorly understood. In this study we report that chronic physical restraint stress in mice decreases excitability specifically in layer 2/3 of pyramidal neurons within the prelimbic subarea of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) accompanied by the induction of depressive-like behavioral states. We found that a complex between G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) 158 (GPR158) and regulator of G protein signaling 7 (RGS7), a regulatory GPCR signaling node recently discovered to be a key modulator of affective behaviors, plays a key role in controlling stress-induced changes in excitability in this neuronal population. Deletion of GPR158 or RGS7 enhanced excitability of layer 2/3 PFC neurons and prevented the impact of stress. Investigation of the underlying molecular mechanisms revealed the A-type potassium channel Kv4.2 subunits is a molecular target of the GPR158-RGS7 complex. We further report that GPR158 physically associates with Kv4.2 channel and promotes its function by suppressing inhibitory modulation by cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation. Taken together, our observations reveal a critical mechanism that adjusts neuronal excitability in L2/3 pyramidal neurons of the PFC and may thereby modulate the effects of stress on depression.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311860	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311860	stress
Molecular & cellular proteomics : MCP	Stress-induced changes in the S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation of synaptic proteins.	The precise regulation of synaptic integrity is critical for neuronal network connectivity and proper brain function. Essential aspects of the activity and localization of synaptic proteins are regulated by posttranslational modifications. S-palmitoylation is a reversible covalent modification of the cysteine with palmitate. It modulates affinity of the protein for cell membranes and membranous compartments. Intracellular palmitoylation dynamics are regulated by crosstalk with other posttranslational modifications, such as S-nitrosylation. S-nitrosylation is a covalent modification of cysteine thiol by nitric oxide and can modulate protein functions. Therefore, simultaneous identification of endogenous site-specific proteomes of both cysteine modifications under certain biological conditions offers new insights into the regulation of functional pathways. Still unclear, however, are the ways in which this crosstalk is affected in brain pathology, such as stress-related disorders. Using a newly developed mass spectrometry-based approach Palmitoylation And Nitrosylation Interplay Monitoring (PANIMoni), we analyzed the endogenous S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation of postsynaptic density proteins at the level of specific single cysteine in a mouse model of chronic stress. Among a total of 813 S-PALM and 620 S-NO cysteine sites that were characterized on 465 and 360 proteins, respectively, we sought to identify those that were differentially affected by stress. Our data show involvement of S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation crosstalk in the regulation of 122 proteins including receptors, scaffolding proteins, regulatory proteins and cytoskeletal components. Our results suggest that atypical crosstalk between the S-palmitoylation and S-nitrosylation interplay of proteins involved in synaptic transmission, protein localization and regulation of synaptic plasticity might be one of the main events associated with chronic stress disorder, leading to destabilization in synaptic networks.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311849	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311849	stress
G3 (Bethesda, Md.)	Genome-Wide Association Analysis of Anoxia Tolerance in 	As the genetic bases to variation in anoxia tolerance are poorly understood, we used the 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311780	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311780	stress
DNA repair	Roles of OGG1 in transcriptional regulation and maintenance of metabolic homeostasis.	Cellular damage produced by conditions generating oxidative stress have far-reaching implications in human disease that encompass, but are not restricted to aging, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, airway inflammation/asthma, cancer, and metabolic syndrome including visceral obesity, insulin resistance, fatty liver disease, and dyslipidemia. Although there are numerous sources and cellular targets of oxidative stress, this review will highlight literature that has investigated downstream consequences of oxidatively-induced DNA damage in both nuclear and mitochondrial genomes. The presence of such damage can in turn, directly and indirectly modulate cellular transcriptional and repair responses to such stressors. As such, the persistence of base damage can serve as a key regulator in coordinated gene-response cascades. Conversely, repair of these DNA lesions serves as both a suppressor of mutagenesis and by inference carcinogenesis, and as a signal for the cessation of ongoing oxidative stress. A key enzyme in all these processes is 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1), which, via non-catalytic binding to oxidatively-induced DNA damage in promoter regions, serves as a nucleation site around which changes in large-scale regulation of inflammation-associated gene expression can occur. Further, the catalytic function of OGG1 can alter the three-dimensional structure of specialized DNA sequences, leading to changes in transcriptional profiles. This review will concentrate on adverse deleterious health effects that are associated with both the diminution of OGG1 activity via population-specific polymorphic variants and the complete loss of OGG1 in murine models. This mouse model displays diet- and age-related induction of metabolic syndrome, highlighting a key role for OGG1 in protecting against these phenotypes. Conversely, recent investigations using murine models having enhanced global expression of a mitochondrial-targeted OGG1 demonstrate that they are highly resistant to diet-induced disease. These data suggest strategies through which therapeutic interventions could be designed for reducing or limiting adverse human health consequences to these ubiquitous stressors.	2019	eng	Review	Netherlands	31311771	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311771	stress
Journal of the American Society of Echocardiography : official publication of the American Society of Echocardiography	A Physician Education Tool to Improve Appropriate Use Criteria for Stress Echocardiography: Long-Term Follow-Up of a Single-Center Study.	 	2019	eng	Letter	United States	31311701	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311701	stress
The American journal of cardiology	Characteristics and Outcomes of Methamphetamine Abuse Among Veterans With Heart Failure.	Methamphetamine is one of the most commonly abused illicit substances worldwide. Chronic methamphetamine abuse (MA) is associated with the development of a dilated cardiomyopathy. MA in patients with heart failure (MethHF) is increasingly reported yet poorly characterized. This was a retrospective cohort study of veterans treated at the VA Medical Center in San Diego between 2005 and 2015 with a diagnosis of HF and a history of MA. The incidence of MA each year was calculated, and clinical characteristics and outcomes of veterans with HF with and without MA were compared. Among 9,491 veterans with HF, 429 were identified as having a history of MA. Between 2006 and 2015, the incidence of MA in veterans with HF doubled from 3.44% to 6.70%. Of the 429 identified, 106 veterans had a hospitalization for HF and they were compared with veterans with HF without evidence of MA (HF). Compared with veterans with HF, veterans with MethHF were significantly younger (60.7 ± 7.3 vs 71.6 ± 11.6 years, p <0.001), with more frequent co-morbid post-traumatic stress disorder (16.8% vs 4.4%, p = 0.006), depression (28.7% vs 11.0%, p = 0.002), homelessness (27.9% vs 8.9%, p = 0.001), and unemployment (55.8% vs 30.0%, p <0.001). Despite their younger age, veterans with MethHF had high rates of HF readmission or emergency room visit (49% vs 38% in MethHF vs HF, p = 0.34) and mortality at 6 months (27% vs 38% in MethHF vs HF, p = 0.10) compared with HF. In conclusion, MA in veterans with HF is on the rise. Certain demographic and clinical characteristics of veterans with MethHF may contribute to their poor outcomes.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311659	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311659	stress
Biochemical and biophysical research communications	Transcription factor WRKY30 mediates resistance to Cucumber mosaic virus in Arabidopsis.	WRKY transcription factors are key regulators in regulating abiotic or biotic stress response in Arabidopsis. Previous studies showed that WRKY30 expression was induced by oxidative stress treatment, fungal elicitor, SA and ABA. However, functions of WRKY30 on viral defense are not well studied. Here, we found that Arabidopsis WRKY DNA binding protein 30 (WRKY30) plays essential roles in regulating Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) resistance. The expression of WRKY30 was induced by CMV infection and wrky30 mutant displayed more susceptibility (including higher oxidative damages, induced reactive oxygen species synthesis and more PSII photochemistry compromise), while WRKY30 overexpression plants (WRKY30OX) exhibited more resistance to CMV infection. Moreover BRs-induced CMV tolerance is partly dependent on WRKY30. And WRKY30 expression increased after BL treatment. All these demonstrated that WRKY30 works as a positive regulator in plant CMV resistance process.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311650	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311650	stress
Preventive veterinary medicine	Cohort-level disease prediction by extrapolation of individual-level predictions in transition dairy cattle.	Dairy cattle experience metabolic stress during the transition from late gestation to early lactation resulting in higher risk for several economically important diseases (e.g. mastitis, metritis, and ketosis). Metabolic stress is described as a physiological state composed of 3 processes: nutrient metabolism, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Current strategies for monitoring transition cow nutrient metabolism include assessment of plasma non-esterified fatty acids and beta-hydroxybutyrate concentrations around the time of calving. Although this method is effective at identifying cows with higher disease risk, there is often not enough time to implement intervention strategies to prevent health disorders from occurring around the time of calving. Previously, we published predictive models for early lactation diseases at the individual cow level at dry-off. However, it is unknown if predictive probabilities from individual-level models can be aggregated to the cohort level to predict cohort-level incidence. Therefore, our objective was to test different data aggregation methods using previously published models that represented the 3 components of metabolic stress (nutrient metabolism, oxidative stress, and inflammation). We included 277 cows from five Michigan dairy herds for this prospective cohort study. On each farm, two to four calving cohorts were formed, totaling 18 cohorts. We measured biomarker data at dry-off and followed the cows until 30 days post-parturition for cohort disease incidence, which was defined as the number of cows: 1) having one or more clinical transition disease outcome, and/or 2) having an adverse health event (abortion or death of calf or cow) within each cohort. We tested three different aggregation methods that we refer to as the p-central, p-dispersion, and p-count methods. For the p-central method, we calculated the averaged predicted probability within each cohort. For the p-dispersion method, we calculated the standard deviation of the predicted probabilities within a cohort. For the p-count method, we counted the number of cows above a specified threshold of predicted probability within each cohort. We built four sets of models: one for each aggregation method and one that included all three aggregation methods (p-combined method). We found that the p-dispersion method was the only method that produced viable predictive models. However, these models tended to overestimate incidence in cohorts with low observed counts and underestimate risk in cohorts with high observed counts.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31311636	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311636	stress
Journal of biomechanics	Compressive mechanical properties of rat and pig optic nerve head.	Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), the primary risk factor for glaucoma, is thought to induce abnormally high strains in optic nerve head (ONH) tissues, which ultimately result in retinal ganglion cell damage and vision loss. The mechanisms by which excessive deformations result in vision loss remain incompletely understood. The ability of computational and in vitro models of the ONH to provide insight into these mechanisms, in many cases, depends on our ability to replicate the physiological environment, which in turn requires knowledge of tissue biomechanical properties. The majority of mechanical data published to date regarding the ONH has been obtained from tensile testing, yet compression has been shown to be the main mode of deformation in the ONH under elevated IOP. We have thus tested pig and rat ONH tissue using unconfined cyclic compression. The material constants C	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311622	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311622	stress
Journal of experimental & clinical cancer research : CR	G-quadruplex ligand RHPS4 radiosensitizes glioblastoma xenograft in vivo through a differential targeting of bulky differentiated- and stem-cancer cells.	We propose that the potent antiproliferative effect of RHPS4 in GSCs is not determined by telomeric dysfunction but is achieved by the induction of RS and by the concomitant depletion of CHK1 and RAD51, leading to DNA damage and cell death. These data open to novel therapeutic options for the targeting of GSCs, indicating that the combined inhibition of cell-cycle checkpoints and DNA repair proteins provides the most effective means to overcome resistance of GSC to genotoxic insults.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311580	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311580	stress
Journal of orthopaedic surgery and research	Design optimization of high tibial osteotomy plates using finite element analysis for improved biomechanical effect.	This study showed that plate design has a strong influence on the stability after HTO. This study demonstrated that the optimized short plates had low stress shielding effect and less micromotion because of its improvement in biomechanical performances. Our result showed that design optimization is an effective tool for HTO plate design. This information can aid future developments in HTO plate design and can be expanded to other implant designs.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311570	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311570	stress
BMC biology	RNA processing errors triggered by cadmium and integrator complex disruption are signals for environmental stress.	Our results are consistent with a model in which disruption of integrator processing of RNA acts as a molecular damage signal initiating an adaptive stress response mediated by heat shock factor-1. When numr-1 is induced via this pathway in C. elegans, its function in RNA metabolism may allow it to mitigate further damage and thereby promote tolerance to cadmium.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311534	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311534	stress
Environmental technology	A promising technology based on photoelectrocatalysis against 	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311444	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311444	stress
Technology in cancer research & treatment	PRDX4 and Its Roles in Various Cancers.	Reactive oxygen species play a vital role in cell survival by regulating physiological metabolism and signal transduction of cells. The imbalance of oxidant and antioxidant states induces oxidative stress within a cell. Redox regulation and oxidative stress are closely related to survival and proliferation of stem cells, cancer cells, and cancer stem cells. Peroxiredoxin 4, a typical endoplasmic reticulum-resident 2-Cys antioxidant of peroxiredoxins, can fine-tune hydrogen peroxide catabolism which affects cell survival by affecting redox balance, oxidative protein folding, and regulation of hydrogen peroxide signaling. Recent studies revealed the overexpression of peroxiredoxin 4 in several kinds of cancers, such as breast cancer, prostate cancer, ovarian cancer, colorectal cancer, and lung cancer. And it has been demonstrated that peroxiredoxin 4 causally contributes to tumorigenesis, therapeutic resistance, metastasis, and recurrence of tumors. In this article, the characteristics of peroxiredoxin 4 in physiological functions and the cancer-related research progress of mammalian peroxiredoxin 4 is reviewed. We believe that peroxiredoxin 4 has the potential of serving as a novel target for multiple cancers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311441	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311441	stress
Plant signaling & behavior	Genetic manipulation of abscisic acid receptors enables modulation of water use efficiency.	The phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) is a key signal molecule for controlling stomatal movement and stress responses such as drought. Genetic manipulation of ABA receptors has recently been reported to improve plant water use efficiency (WUE). We therefore compared details of WUE traits between the ABA receptor 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311440	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311440	stress
Journal of receptor and signal transduction research	Discovery of human autophagy initiation kinase ULK1 inhibitors by multi-directional 	Autophagy is a self-catabolic mechanism employed by cancer cells to acquire nutrients and energy in times of stress conditions, thereby leading to its progression and survival. Thus, autophagy inhibition has emerged as a new paradigm in the area of cancer treatment. Here, we leverage multi-dimensional screening campaigns aim to identify potent inhibitors against an early and an essential autophagic kinase, ULK1 from DrugBank database. In particular, receptor-based hypothesis, pharmacophore hypothesis, e-pharmacophore hypothesis and shape similarity-based screening algorithm were employed. Of note, the results of the different algorithm were then integrated to eliminate the false positive prediction. Moreover, the inhibitory activities and PK/PD parameters of the leads were tested by Glide and Qikprop algorithm. This resulted in a set of four hits namely; DB12686, DB08341, DB07936, and DB07163. Finally, molecular dynamics simulation was performed using the GROMACS package, to validate the binding kinetics of the hit compound. The compound activity 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311432	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311432	stress
Journal of orthopaedic surgery (Hong Kong)	Finite element study of the effects of fragment shape and screw configuration on the mechanical behavior of tibial tubercle osteotomy.	The fragment shape with a step cut and fixation with two parallel horizontal or downward screws are suggested for TTO, while the trapezoidal screw configuration is not suggested. Furthermore, the downward screw configuration is a suitable strategy to reduce bone stress.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311422	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311422	stress
The Journal of school nursing : the official publication of the National Association of School Nurses	A Person-Centred Approach When Encountering Students With Recurrent Pain: School Nurses' Experiences.	Stress has a negative impact on students' daily lives and can be associated with recurrent pain. School nurses play a key role in supporting young people with stress-related pain. The purpose of this qualitative interview study was to elucidate school nurses' experiences of encountering students with recurrent pain when practicing person-centred care. The school nurses were based at public and private schools and worked with students aged 12-19. Data were collected through interviews with 18 school nurses and analyzed with deductive content analysis. The school nurses felt that actively listening to the students' narratives about daily life with recurrent pain, and co-creation of a health plan, encouraged the students to participate as partners in their own care and strengthened their relation with the students. The application of a person-centred approach in school health care meant that traditional knowledge transfer was replaced with a dialogue that reflects both the student's and school nurse's perspective.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311402	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311402	stress
Journal of the American Heart Association	Deletion of the Cardiomyocyte Glucocorticoid Receptor Leads to Sexually Dimorphic Changes in Cardiac Gene Expression and Progression to Heart Failure.	Background The contribution of glucocorticoids to sexual dimorphism in the heart is essentially unknown. Therefore, we sought to determine the sexually dimorphic actions of glucocorticoid signaling in cardiac function and gene expression. To accomplish this goal, we conducted studies on mice lacking glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in cardiomyocytes (cardioGRKO mouse model). Methods and Results Deletion of cardiomyocyte GR leads to an increase in mortality because of the development of spontaneous cardiac pathology in both male and female mice; however, females are more resistant to GR signaling inactivation in the heart. Male cardioGRKO mice had a median survival age of 6 months. In contrast, females had a median survival age of 10 months. Transthoracic echocardiography data showed phenotypic differences between male and female cardioGRKO hearts. By 3 months of age, male cardioGRKO mice exhibited left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Conversely, no significant functional deficits were observed in female cardioGRKO mice at the same time point. Functional sensitivity of male hearts to the loss of cardiomyocyte GR was reversed following gonadectomy. RNA-Seq analysis showed that deleting GR in the male hearts leads to a more profound dysregulation in the expression of genes implicated in heart rate regulation (calcium handling). In agreement with these gene expression data, cardiomyocytes isolated from male cardioGRKO hearts displayed altered intracellular calcium responses. In contrast, female GR-deficient cardiomyocytes presented a response comparable with controls. Conclusions These data suggest that GR regulates calcium responses in a sex-biased manner, leading to sexually distinct responses to stress in male and female mice hearts, which may contribute to sex differences in heart disease, including the development of ventricular arrhythmias that contribute to heart failure and sudden death.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311395	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311395	stress
Stress (Amsterdam, Netherlands)	Suppression of the Innate Cancer-Killing Activity in Human Granulocytes by Stress Reaction as a Possible Mechanism for Affecting Cancer Development.	Psychological stress may be linked to cancer incidence; however, more direct evidence is required to support this viewpoint. In this study, we investigated the effects of stress on immunosurveillance against cancer cells using a previously established examination stress model. We showed that the cancer killing activity (CKA) of granulocytes (also known as polymorphic nuclear cells, PMNs) is sharply reduced during examination stress stimulation in some donors who are psychologically sensitive to examination stress, with the concentration of plasma stress hormones (cortisone, epinephrine, and norepinephrine) increasing accordingly. The effects of stress hormones on immune cell CKA were also investigated under two 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311393	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311393	stress
The Journal of international medical research	Electroacupuncture reduces astrocyte number and oxidative stress in aged rats with surgery-induced cognitive dysfunction.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311378	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311378	stress
The Journal of international medical research	Emotional exhaustion, burnout, and perceived stress in dental students.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311371	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311371	stress
The Journal of international medical research	Perceived stress, life events, fatigue and temperament in patients with psoriasis.	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311368	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311368	stress
Expert review of respiratory medicine	The impact of smoking and the influence of other factors on lung cancer.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311354	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311354	stress
The American journal of drug and alcohol abuse	Fluctuations in daily PTSD symptoms are related to proximal alcohol use: a micro-longitudinal study of women victims of intimate partner violence.	None	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311330	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311330	stress
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	NEAT1 is overexpressed in Parkinson's disease 	Recent reports attribute numerous regulatory functions to the nuclear paraspeckle-forming long noncoding RNA, nuclear enriched assembly transcript 1 (NEAT1), but the implications of its involvement in Parkinson's disease (PD) remain controversial. To address this issue, we assessed NEAT1 expression levels and cell type patterns in the 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311324	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311324	stress
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	Misfolded proinsulin impairs processing of precursor of insulin receptor and insulin signaling in β cells.	Insulin resistance in classic insulin-responsive tissues is a hallmark of type 2 diabetes (T2D). However, the pathologic significance of β-cell insulin resistance and the underlying mechanisms contributing to defective insulin signaling in β cells remain largely unknown. Emerging evidence indicates that proinsulin misfolding is not only the molecular basis of mutant 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311313	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311313	stress
FASEB journal : official publication of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology	Long noncoding RNA FLRL2 alleviated nonalcoholic fatty liver disease through Arntl-Sirt1 pathway.	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which has an unknown pathogenesis and lacks a curative treatment, is becoming more prevalent. A previous long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) profiling analysis revealed a potential role for fatty liver-related lncRNA 2 (FLRL2) in the pathogenesis of NAFLD. To further understand the role of FLRL2 in NAFLD and explore its therapeutic value, both 	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31311301	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311301	stress
Cephalalgia : an international journal of headache	Cannabinoids induce latent sensitization in a preclinical model of medication overuse headache.	Cannabinoid receptor agonists including Δ-9-THC produce a state of latent sensitization characterized by increased sensitivity to stress, a presumed migraine trigger. Overuse of cannabinoids including cannabis may increase the risk of medication overuse headache in vulnerable individuals.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31311288	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311288	stress
Applied physiology, nutrition, and metabolism = Physiologie appliquee, nutrition et metabolisme	Shear stress and flow-mediated dilation in the normoxic and hypoxic human.	The endothelium is a single cell layer that plays a critical role in determining the health and function of blood vessels. Endothelial function is shaped by shear stress, the frictional force exerted by the speed of blood flow, and the thickness (viscosity) of the blood. Exposure to shear stress that reverses direction back-and-forth impairs endothelial function in young men. Whether women are equally susceptible to this perturbation and the isolated impact of a low level of shear stress with and without reversal of shear had not been investigated. Hypoxia, the low levels of oxygen that are experienced at high altitude, has been shown to influence flow reversal and impair endothelial function. However, no previous study had accounted for the changes in blood thickness, and hence shear stress that occur at high altitude. This may be especially important in the context of excessive erythrocytosis, a high-altitude disease characterized by exceptionally thick blood and increased cardiovascular risk. This thesis examined (	2019	eng	Journal Article	Canada	31311282	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311282	stress
The Journal of sports medicine and physical fitness	A challenging diagnosis of exercise-related transient abdominal pain.	A 17-year-old woman, high-performance triathlete, presented transient abdominal pain, face angioedema and sometimes syncope during exercise. Exercise-induced anaphylaxis was suspected at first. Allergic explorations with skin prick tests were negative but wheat flour specific IgE and recombinant rTri a14 (LTP) were weakly positive. However, wheat eviction did not improve the symptoms and stress test after wheat oral challenge did not show any signs of anaphylaxis. An abdominal ultrasound revealed peak expiratory velocities with a stenosis evaluated at 70 to 80 percent with turbulences in the celiac artery, confirmed by computed tomography angiogram. The diagnosis of exercise-induced median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) was retained and we discuss here the challenging diagnosis mimicking exercise- induced anaphylaxis.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Italy	31311236	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311236	stress
Cells	Targeting the Canonical WNT/β-Catenin Pathway in Cancer Treatment Using Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs.	Chronic inflammation and oxidative stress are common and co-substantial pathological processes accompanying and contributing to cancers. Numerous epidemiological studies have indicated that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) could have a positive effect on both the prevention of cancer and tumor therapy. Numerous hypotheses have postulated that NSAIDs could slow tumor growth by acting on both chronic inflammation and oxidative stress. This review takes a closer look at these hypotheses. In the cancer process, one of the major signaling pathways involved is the WNT/β-catenin pathway, which appears to be upregulated. This pathway is closely associated with both chronic inflammation and oxidative stress in cancers. The administration of NSAIDs has been observed to help in the downregulation of the WNT/β-catenin pathway and thus in the control of tumor growth. NSAIDs act as PPARγ agonists. The WNT/β-catenin pathway and PPARγ act in opposing manners. PPARγ agonists can promote cell cycle arrest, cell differentiation, and apoptosis, and can reduce inflammation, oxidative stress, proliferation, invasion, and cell migration. In parallel, the dysregulation of circadian rhythms (CRs) contributes to cancer development through the upregulation of the canonical WNT/β-catenin pathway. By stimulating PPARγ expression, NSAIDs can control CRs through the regulation of many key circadian genes. The administration of NSAIDs in cancer treatment would thus appear to be an interesting therapeutic strategy, which acts through their role in regulating WNT/β-catenin pathway and PPARγ activity levels.	2019	eng	Review	Switzerland	31311204	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311204	stress
Plants (Basel, Switzerland)	Integration of Phenotype and Hormone Data during Adventitious Rooting in Carnation (	The rooting of stem cuttings is a highly efficient procedure for the vegetative propagation of ornamental plants. In cultivated carnations, an increased auxin level in the stem cutting base produced by active auxin transport from the leaves triggers adventitious root (AR) formation from the cambium. To provide additional insight into the physiological and genetic basis of this complex trait, we studied AR formation in a collection of 159 F	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311180	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311180	stress
Journal of clinical medicine	Circulating Lactonase Activity but Not Protein Level of PON-1 Predicts Adverse Outcomes in Subjects with Chronic Kidney Disease.	The burden of cardiovascular disease and death in chronic kidney disease (CKD) outpaces that of the other diseases and is not adequately described by traditional risk factors alone. Diminished activity of paraoxonase (PON)-1 is associated with increased oxidant stress, a common feature underlying the pathogenesis of CKD. We aimed to assess the prognostic value of circulating PON-1 protein and PON lactonase activity on adverse clinical outcomes across various stages and etiologies of CKD. Circulating PON-1 protein levels and PON lactonase activity were measured simultaneously in patients with CKD as well as a cohort of apparently healthy non-CKD subjects. Both circulating PON-1 protein levels and PON lactonase activity were significantly lower in CKD patients compared to the non-CKD subjects. Similarly, across all stages of CKD, circulating PON-1 protein and PON lactonase activity were significantly lower in patients with CKD compared to the non-CKD controls. Circulating PON lactonase activity, but not protein levels, predicted future adverse clinical outcomes, even after adjustment for traditional risk factors. The combination of lower circulating protein levels and higher activity within the CKD subjects were associated with the best survival outcomes. These findings demonstrate that diminished circulating PON lactonase activity, but not protein levels, predicts higher risk of future adverse clinical outcomes in patients with CKD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311140	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311140	stress
Materials (Basel, Switzerland)	Study on the Numerical Simulation of the SLM Molten Pool Dynamic Behavior of a Nickel-Based Superalloy on the Workpiece Scale.	Nickel-based superalloys are one of the most industrially important families of metallic alloys at present. Selective Laser Melting (SLM), as one of the additive manufacturing technologies for directly forming complex metal parts, has been applied in the production of Inconel 718 components. Based on the more reasonable and comprehensive equivalent processing models (vaporization heat loss, equivalent physical parameters) for the nickel-based superalloy SLM process, an SLM molten pool dynamic behavior prediction model on the workpiece scale was established. Related equivalent processing models were customized by secondary development with the software Fluent. In order to verify the feasibility of the SLM molten pool dynamics model, the SLM single-pass employed to form the Inconel 718 alloy process was calculated. The simulated and experimental solidified track dimensions were in good agreement. Then, the influences of different process parameters (laser power, scanning speed) on the SLM formation of the Inconel 718 alloy were calculated and analyzed. The simulation and experimental solidified track widths were well-matched, and the result showed that, as a rule, the solidified track width increased linearly with the laser power and decreased linearly with the scanning speed. This paper will help lay the foundation for a subsequent numerical simulation study of the thermal-melt-stress evolution process of an SLM workpiece.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311118	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311118	stress
International journal of molecular sciences	NLRP3 Inflammasome Modulation by Melatonin Supplementation in Chronic Pristane-Induced Lupus Nephritis.	Lupus nephritis (LN) is a kidney inflammatory disease caused by systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). NLRP3 inflammasome activation is implicated in LN pathogenesis, suggesting its potential targets for LN treatment. Melatonin, an endogenous indoleamine, is considered an important multitasking molecule that has been reported to have anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB)-mediated inflammatory responses in vivo. This molecule has also protective effects against the activation of the inflammasomes and, in particular, the NLRP3 inflammasome. Thus, this work evaluated the effect of melatonin on morphological alteration and NLRP3 inflammasome activation in LN pristane mouse models. To evaluate the melatonin effects in these mice, we studied the renal cytoarchitecture by means of morphological analyses and immunohistochemical expression of specific markers related to oxidative stress, inflammation and inflammasome activation. Our results showed that melatonin attenuates pristane-induced LN through restoring of morphology and attenuation of oxidative stress and inflammation through a pathway that inhibited activation of NLRP3 inflammasome signaling. Our data clearly demonstrate that melatonin has protective activity on lupus nephritis in these mice that is highly associated with its effect on enhancing the Nrf2 antioxidant signaling pathway and decreasing renal NLRP3 inflammasome activation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311094	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311094	stress
International journal of molecular sciences	Quantitative Analysis of Carbonic Anhydrase IX Uncovers Hypoxia-Related Functional Differences in Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma Subtypes.	Upregulation of carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX) was found to be associated with unfavorable prognosis and resistance to treatment in a broad spectrum of malignancies, recently also in classical Hodgkin's lymphoma (cHL). As demonstrated, variable CAIX expression in a significant number of cHL cases was associated with poor treatment response. The current study focused on the quantification CAIX immunopositivity and its relative expression compared to the total CD30+ neoplastic pool using digital image analysis. One hundred and one lymph node samples featuring cHL histology were analyzed for both CD30 and CAIX by immunohistochemistry. Whole histological slides were scanned and immunopositivity was determined as the histoscore (H-score) using the DensitoQuant software module (3DHistech Kft., Budapest, Hungary). CAIX positivity was observed in the HRS-cells of 56/101 cases (55.44%) and frequently observed in the proximity of necrotic foci. CAIX H-scores were highly variable (range: 2.16-90.36, mean 18.7 ± 18.8). Individual CAIX values were independent of the much higher CD30 values (range 3.46-151.3, mean 52.37 ± 30.74). The CAIX/CD30 index proved to be the highest in the aggressive lymphocyte-depleted (LD) subtype (CAIX/CD30: 0.876). The CAIX expression and the CAIX/CD30 relative index can be precisely determined by image analysis, and values reflect the extent of a tumor mass undergoing hypoxic-stress-related adaptation in the most aggressive forms of cHL.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311071	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311071	stress
Microorganisms	Metabolic Profiling and Cold-Starvation Stress Response of Oxygen-Tolerant 	Phenotypic and genotypic evidence indicates that many LAB strains can grow in presence of oxygen and can shift from fermentative to aerobic and/or respiratory metabolism. The aerobic and respiratory growth of several LAB species have been studied, allowing the selection of strains showing improved biomass production, long-term survival, and resistance under oxygen and stress conditions. The aim of this work was to observe the adaptation of two 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311070	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311070	stress
Acta medica Lituanica	Gastric antral vascular ectasia should not be overlooked in erythropoietin resistance: a series of case reports.	Santrauka	2018	eng	Journal Article	Lithuania	31308827	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31308827	stress
 	Cancer-Related Post-traumatic Stress (PDQ®): Patient Version	This PDQ cancer information summary has current information about the treatment of cancer-related post-traumatic stress. It is meant to inform and help patients, families, and caregivers. It does not give formal guidelines or recommendations for making decisions about health care. Editorial Boards write the PDQ cancer information summaries and keep them up to date. These Boards are made up of experts in cancer treatment and other specialties related to cancer. The summaries are reviewed regularly and changes are made when there is new information. The date on each summary ("Date Last Modified") is the date of the most recent change. The information in this patient summary was taken from the health professional version, which is reviewed regularly and updated as needed, by the PDQ Supportive and Palliative Care Editorial Board.	2019	eng	Review	 	26389374	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26389374	stress
Cardiology	Heat Stress and Cardiovascular Mortality in Immigrant Workers: Can We Do Something More?	 	2019	eng	Journal Article	Switzerland	31311011	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31311011	stress
Chemosphere	Metabolism and distribution of dibutyl phthalate in wheat grown on different soil types.	Herein, we investigated the distribution of dibutyl phthalate (DBP) in the tissues of wheat grown on DBP-contaminated soils and determined the activity of detoxifying enzymes [cytochrome P450 (P450) and glutathione S-transferase (GST)] in these tissues at different growth stages of wheat. The content of DBP in wheat grown on all soil types increased with increasing DBP stress concentration, and the DBP content of each tissue decreased as wheat growth progressed. Under the same conditions, the DBP content of roots exceeded that of leaves and stems, and the DBP content of all tissues decreased in the order of brown soil > fluvo-aquic soil > cinnamon soil. The decrease of DBP content with growth and the content of mono-n-butyl dicarboxylate (MBP, main metabolite of DBP) followed the order of cinnamon soil > fluvo-aquic soil > brown soil; the latter parameter initially increased and then decreased as growth progressed. The changes in P450 content and GST activities in wheat tissues were highly consistent with the corresponding changes in DBP and MBP content, except for the DBP stress level of 40 mg kg	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310966	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310966	stress
Nutrition (Burbank, Los Angeles County, Calif.)	Antiobesity effects of anthocyanins on mitochondrial biogenesis, inflammation, and oxidative stress: A systematic review.	Studies have shown that anthocyanins attenuate obesity. In this review, we confirm these effects and explain the possible mechanisms underlying them. A systematic search was conducted in electronic databases using obesity as the main term along with anthocyanins and the main anthocyanidins, including articles in Portuguese, English, and Spanish without any restriction as to year. The review was carried out by peers following PRISMA recommendations: 1980 studies were identified, and 19 articles were analyzed. The studies varied in relation to time, pathways, cells used, and anthocyanin types. The positive effects were observed in 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase pathways and mitochondrial biogenesis and in a reduction in inflammation and oxidative stress. Anthocyanins can improve the metabolic control involved in obesity by reducing lipogenesis, oxidative stress, and inflammation. This can boost the speed of lipolysis and thermogenesis, regulate satiety, and reduce body fat accumulation. In addition, anthocyanins have shown promising effects on controlling obesity compared with the standard of care.	2019	eng	Review	United States	31310961	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310961	stress
Nutrition (Burbank, Los Angeles County, Calif.)	Effects of lipoic acid and ω-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids on the kidney in the ovariectomized rat model of menopause.	The results suggest that ovariectomy did not affect the redox profile in the kidneys. LA, DHA, and EPA supplementation increased certain endogenous antioxidants; however, EPA may have a prooxidant effect on the kidneys.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310958	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310958	stress
Biomedicine & pharmacotherapy = Biomedecine & pharmacotherapie	Neuroprotective effect of Vanillin on hypoxic-ischemic brain damage in neonatal rats.	Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD) is a leading cause of death and perpetual neurological dysfunction in neonates. Vanillin (Van), a natural phenolic compound with neuroprotective properties, exerts neuroprotection on a gerbil model of global ischemia by inhibiting oxidative damage. This study aimed to explore the potential neuroprotective roles of Van in neonatal rats suffering from hypoxic-ischemic (HI). An HI model of 7-day-old SD rats was induced by left carotid artery ligation followed by exposure to 8% oxygen (balanced with nitrogen) for 2.5 h at 37 °C. At 48 h after intraperitoneal injection with Van (20, 40, and 80 mg/kg) or saline, neurobehavioral function, cerebral infract volume, brain water content, and histomorphological changes were performed to evaluate brain injury. Transmission electron microscopy and immunoglobulin G (IgG) staining were conducted to evaluate the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The levels of oxidative stress and tight junction proteins, as well as the activities of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), were also determined in the ipsilateral hemisphere. Results showed that Van post-treatment significantly ameliorated early neurobehavioral deficits, decreased infarct volume and brain edema, as well as attenuated histopathologic injury and IgG extravasation. Furthermore, Van markedly increased the activities of endogenous antioxidant enzymes and decreased malondialdehyde content. Meanwhile, the activation of MMP-2 and MMP-9 induced by HI was partially blocked by Van. Finally, Van obviously increased the expression of ZO-1, Occludin, and Claudin-5 compared with the HI group. Collectively, Van can provide neuroprotective effects against neonatal HIBD possibly by attenuating oxidative damage and preserving BBB integrity.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31310955	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310955	stress
Plant physiology and biochemistry : PPB	Immunolocalization of β-(1-4)-D-galactan, xyloglucans and xylans in the reaction xylem fibres of Leucaena leucocephala (Lam.) de Wit.	Cell wall architecture of tension wood fibres represents a suitable biological system to study the mechanism of growth and maintenance of posture of trees growing under various physical and physiological growth constraints. In the present study, we investigated the spatial distributions of β-(1-4)-D-galactan, xyloglucan and xylans (both less and highly substituted) in the opposite and tension wood fibres of bent Leucaena leucocephala by immunolabelling with monoclonal antibodies LM5, CCRCM1, LM10 and LM11 specific to these carbohydrate epitopes. The presence of non-lignified, tertiary wall layer is the typical tension wood characteristic associated with the reaction xylem fibres in Leucaena. LM5 labelling of opposite fibres showed weak labelling in the cell walls indicating less concentration of β-(1-4)-D-galactans while tension wood showed strong labelling in the tertiary wall layer suggesting the gelatinous layer (G-layer) has a strong cross linking with β-(1-4)-D-galactans. Xyloglucan distribution was more in the compound middle lamellae and the primary wall-S1 layer boundary of tension wood fibres as compared to that of opposite wood. A weak labelling was also evident near the boundary between the G-layer and the secondary wall of tension wood fibres. The secondary wall of opposite and tension wood fibres showed a strong distribution of both ls ACG Xs (LM10) and hs ACG Xs (LM11) while a weak labelling was noticed in the compound middle lamella. Tension wood fibres also showed strong xylan labelling mainly confined to the lignified secondary walls while the G-layer showed weak xylan labelling. In conclusion, our results suggest that β-(1-4)-D-galactans and xyloglucans could be implicated in the tensile stress generation within the G-layer of tension wood fibres of Leucaena leucocephala.	2019	eng	Journal Article	France	31310944	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310944	stress
Environment international	Multiple exposures to organophosphate flame retardants alter urinary oxidative stress biomarkers among children: The Hokkaido Study.	Organophosphate flame retardants (PFRs) are used as additives in plastics and other applications such as curtains and carpets as a replacement for brominated flame retardants. As such, exposure to PFR mixtures is widespread, with children being more vulnerable than adults to associated health risks such as allergies and inflammation. Oxidative stress is thought to be able to modulate the development of childhood airway inflammation and atopic dermatitis. To evaluate these associations, the present study investigated the relationship between urinary PFR metabolites, their mixtures and urinary oxidative stress biomarkers in children as part of the Hokkaido Study on Environment and Children's Health. The levels of the oxidative stress biomarkers, such as 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), hexanoyl-lysine (HEL), and 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), and of 14 PFR metabolites were measured in morning spot urine samples of 7-year-old children (n = 400). Associations between PFR metabolites or PFR metabolite mixtures and oxidative stress biomarkers were examined by multiple regression analysis and weighted quantile sum regression analysis, respectively. We found that the non-chlorinated PFR metabolites, 2-ethylhexyl phenyl phosphate (EHPHP), bis(2-butoxyethyl) phosphate (BBOEP), and diphenyl phosphate (DPHP) were associated with increased levels of oxidative stress biomarkers. Furthermore, the PFR metabolite mixture was associated with increased levels of HEL and HNE, but not 8-OHdG. The combination of elevated top 2 PFR metabolites was not associated with higher urinary oxidative stress marker levels. This is the first study to report associations between urinary PFR metabolites and oxidative stress biomarkers among children.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310930	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310930	stress
Phytomedicine : international journal of phytotherapy and phytopharmacology	Polygonum cuspidatum extract attenuates fructose-induced liver lipid accumulation through inhibiting Keap1 and activating Nrf2 antioxidant pathway.	These results demonstrate that PCE reduces oxidative stress, and prevent lipid accumulation in the liver of fructose-fed rats possibly by targeting the Keap1/Nrf2 pathway. PCE may be a promising therapeutic strategy for fructose-associated liver lipid accumulation.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Germany	31310912	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310912	stress
Journal of affective disorders	Depressive symptoms and maternal psychological distress during early infancy: A pilot study in preterm as compared with term mother-infant dyads.	Findings confirm that becoming a mother of a preterm infant is an event associated with emotional distress. These symptoms may resolve with time, and sometimes are independent of the infant's clinical severity. Assessing parental sources of stress and subsequent follow-up is essential to promote parental support, both for preterm and term mothers.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310909	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310909	stress
Ecotoxicology and environmental safety	Integrated biomarker response index to assess toxic effects of environmentally relevant concentrations of paracetamol in a neotropical catfish (Rhamdia quelen).	The nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are amongst the most commonly detected classes of pharmaceuticals in freshwater environments, with paracetamol being the most abundant. The aim of this study was to evaluate the possible toxic effects of environmentally relevant concentrations (0.25, 2.5 and 25 μg.L	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310901	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310901	stress
Psychiatry research	A study of dissociation in survivors of 5 disasters.	This study examined dissociation as an outcome to disaster in dissociative data collected from 423 highly-exposed survivors of 5 different disasters using consistent methodology. Ten items selected for conceptual relevance to disaster experience were administered from the Dissociative Disorders Interview Schedule, a structured interview for lifetime dissociative disorders. Structured psychiatric interviews provided data on incident somatization symptoms, disaster-related PTSD, and lifetime predisaster psychopathology. The Temperament and Character Inventory assessed personality. Observed levels of dissociation were low and not usually postdisaster. Dissociation level was associated with female sex, number of incident somatization symptoms, personality (underdeveloped executive functioning), PTSD, and predisaster psychopathology in bivariate analyses. In multiple linear regression models, dissociation was associated with the low number of incident somatoform symptoms observed independent of the effects of PTSD, hyperarousal specifically (but not intrusion or avoidance/numbing), personality, predisaster psychopathology, and demographic variables which were not independently associated with dissociation. The low levels of dissociation found in this study and the lack of association between dissociation and indicators of psychopathology point to a largely nonpathological nature of the dissociative phenomena measured. These findings do not indicate the development of dissociative psychopathology as a prevalent mental health outcome of disasters.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31310893	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310893	stress
Water research	Evaluation of potential environmental benefits from seawater toilet flushing.	Water scarcity has become a global issue that has forced many communities to seek alternative water resources. The majority of water on the earth's surface comes from the sea. Seawater has the potential to mitigate water stress after proper treatment. In Hong Kong, seawater has been used directly for toilet flushing for more than 50 years and the seawater toilet flushing (SWTF) system serves 80% of the residents. However, its environmental feasibility remains unknown. This study is a pioneer evaluating the environmental performances of the SWTF system by comparing SWTF with other alternative water resources including desalinated seawater, desalinated wastewater effluent, centralized wastewater reclamation and on-site greywater reclamation systems, while the conventional long-distance imported water scenario is set as the baseline for comparison. This evaluation is first conducted in the Southern District and North New Territory in Hong Kong, demonstrating SWTF is significantly more environmentally-friendly than other alternative water resources, which is the only alternative water resource application approach with environmental impacts comparable with the conventional long-distance imported water scenario. On the contrary, other alternative water resources application approaches would result in additional environmental impacts. Seaside distances and effective population density are two major geographical impact factors effecting the environmental impacts of different water systems in these two districts. The benefits obtained from SWTF in fourteen cities in South China are further investigated. It is confirmed that SWTF can significantly relieve water stress with the lowest environmental impacts comparing with other alternative options in these cities if alternative water resources must be applied for domestic usage. However, the assessment from different aspects should be further conducted to compare these alternative water resources.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310889	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310889	stress
Acta biomaterialia	Compressive Deformation and Failure of Trabecular Structures in A Turtle Shell.	Turtle shells comprising of cortical and trabecular bones exhibit intriguing mechanical properties. In this work, compression tests were performed using specimens made from the carapace of Kinixys erosa turtle. A combination of imaging techniques and mechanical testing were employed to examine the responses of hierarchical microstructures of turtle shell under compression. Finite element models produced from microCT-scanned microstructures and analytical foam structure models were then used to elucidate local responses of trabecular bones deformed under compression. The results reveal the contributions from micro-strut bending and stress concentrations to the fractural mechanisms of trabecular bone structures. The porous structures of turtle shells could be an excellent prototype for the bioinspired design of deformation-resistant structures. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: In this study, a combination of analytical, computational models and experiments is used to study the underlying mechanisms that contribute to the compressive deformation of a Kinixys erosa turtle shell between the nano-, micro- and macro-scales. The proposed work shows that the turtle shell structures can be analyzed as sandwich structures that have the capacity to concentrate deformation and stresses within the trabecular bones, which enables significant energy absorption during compressive deformation. Then, the trends in the deformation characteristics and the strengths of the trabecular bone segments are well predicted by the four-strut model, which captures the effects of variations in strut length, thickness and orientation that are related to microstructural uncertainties of the turtle shells. The above results also suggest that the model may be used to guide the bioinspired design of sandwich porous structures that mimic the properties of the cortical and trabecular bone segments of turtle shells under a range of loading conditions.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310853	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310853	stress
Fish & shellfish immunology	Chlorpyrifos induced oxidative stress to promote apoptosis and autophagy through the regulation of miR-19a-AMPK axis in common carp.	Chlorpyrifos (CPF) has become a mainly pollution in water environment. Micro-RNAs (miRNAs) play an important part in the development of apoptosis and autophagy. However, the potential mechanism of CPF induced kidney toxicity and the roles of miRNAs are still unclear. To explore the underlying mechanism, the kidney of common carp exposed to different concentrations of CPF for 40 days was used as a research object. We found that CPF could damage the ultrastructure and function of kidney; and also caused antioxidant system disorder. CPF inhibited the mRNA level of miR-19a which improved AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Furthermore, the detection of apoptosis and autophagy relative genes showed that the expressions of TSC complex subunit 2 (TSC2), light chain 3 (LC3), Dynein, tumor protein 53 (p53), Bcl-2 associated X protein (Bax), caspase-3 and caspase-9 were enhanced and the expressions of nechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR), Ras homolog mTORC1 binding (Rheb) and B-cell lymphoma (Bcl-2) were reduced in dose-dependent way. Taken together, we conclude that CPF causes oxidative stress and miR-19a-AMPK axis disorder, thereby promotes apoptosis and autophagy in common carp kidney. Our study will provide theoretical basis for toxicology research and environmental protection of CPF.	2019	eng	Journal Article	England	31310849	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310849	stress
Neurobiology of learning and memory	Repeated Three-hour Maternal Deprivation as a model of early-life stress alters maternal behavior, olfactory learning and neural development.	Early life stress such as physical abuse, trauma or neglect during a critical period of development can elicit negative long-lasting effects on health. Neonatal maternal deprivation (MD) is a stressful event capable of triggering structural and neurobiological changes in Central Nervous System (CNS) development during proliferative and migratory cell differentiation. In this study, we investigated the maternal behavior of lactating rats submitted to protocol of chronic neonatal maternal deprivation (MD) during postnatal day (PND) 1 to 10. We analyzed the effects of the MD in the olfactory memory and cellular proliferation and differentiation in the hippocampus and olfactory bulb in Wistar rat pups on 7, 11 and 21 days postpartum. Analysis in active neurons, cellular differentiation and proliferation, were marked and evaluated by flow cytometry in tissue samples of hippocampi and olfactory bulb. Our results demonstrated an increase in maternal behavior immediately after dam's return to the home-cage in MD group compared to the non-deprived group. In addition, MD pups spent more time (higher latency) to identify the nest odor in comparison to the non-deprived rat pups in the olfactory learning task and showed a significant delay in the neural differentiation and proliferation in the hippocampus and olfactory bulb. These results reveal that disruptions in the mother-infant bonding by the MD induce changes in maternal behavior and interaction with the offspring that could be leading to delayed CNS development and significant impairment in offspring's olfactory learning.	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310813	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310813	stress
Cancer letters	Higd-1a regulates the proliferation of pancreatic cancer cells through a pERK/p27	Higd-1a/HIMP1-a/HIG1, a mitochondrial inner membrane protein, promotes cell survival under low glucose and hypoxic conditions. We previously reported that it interacts with Opa1, a factor involved in mitochondrial fusion, to regulate mitochondrial homeostasis. In the present study, we found that depletion of Higd-1a inhibited the proliferation of pancreatic cancer cells in vitro and in mice xenografts. Higd-1a knockdown did not itself lead to cell death but it caused cell cycle arrest through induction of p27	2019	eng	Journal Article	Ireland	31310799	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310799	stress
Brain, behavior, and immunity	Association of HLA Locus Alleles with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder.	To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to report an association of HLA alleles with PTSD. Altogether, our results support the link between the immune system, brain and PTSD.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310798	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310798	stress
Free radical biology & medicine	miR-15b induces premature ovarian failure in mice via inhibition of α-Klotho expression in ovarian granulosa cells.	A thorough understanding of epigenetics regulatory mechanisms of premature ovarian failure (POF) is still lacking. Here, we found that cyclophosphamide induced significantly decrease in α-Klotho (Kl) expression in mouse ovarian granulosa cells (mOGCs), suggesting that cyclophosphamide inhibited Kl expression. Cyclophosphamide also significantly accelerated ageing and led to a decline in the pregnancy rate of C. elegans. We subsequently noted that the pathological condition exhibited by Kl	2019	eng	Journal Article	United States	31310795	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310795	stress
Toxicology letters	Functions of thioredoxin1 in brain development and in response to environmental chemicals in zebrafish embryos.	Thioredoxin is an evolutionarily conserved antioxidant protein that plays a crucial role for fundamental cellular processes and embryonic development. Growing evidence support that Thioredoxin influences cellular response to chemicals insults, particularly those accompanying oxidative stress. The mechanisms underlying the functions of Thioredoxin1 in the embryonic development under the environmental toxicant exposure remain, however, largely unexplored. We report here that thioredoxin1 becomes differentially expressed in zebrafish embryos after exposure to 9 out of 11 environmental chemicals. In situ gene expression analysis show that thioredoxin1 is expressed in neurons, olfactory epithelia, liver and swim bladder under normal conditions. After MeHg exposure, however, thioredoxin1 is ectopically induced in the hair cells of the lateral line and in epithelia cells of the pharynx. Knockdown of Thioredoxin1 induces hydrocephalus and increases cell apoptosis in the brain ventricular epithelia cells. In comparison with 5% malformation in embryos injected with control morpholino, MeHg induces more than 77% defects in Thioredoxin1 knockdown embryos. Our data suggest that there is an association between hydrocephalus and Thioredoxin1 malfunction in embryonic development, and provide valuable information to elucidate the protective role of Thioredoxin1 against chemicals disruption.	2019	eng	Journal Article	Netherlands	31310794	https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31310794	stress
